Term DELIMITER Explanation
Three hundred and one redirect DELIMITER This refers to as permanent redirection from one URL to another so as to send site visitors and search engines to the new URL than the one they originally typed automatically. Three hundred and one redirect is a key practice in order to maintain the website's domain authority and search rankings when URL of the site is changed for any reason. The Status code of three hundred and one in turn means that the page has been permanently moved to a new location.
Three RD party Payment Processor DELIMITER The alternative to Merchant Accounts some ecommerce platforms can accept payment through providers like PayPal.
AB Testing DELIMITER Also known as Split Testing is comparing two versions of a web page to see which one performs better. You compare two web pages by showing the two variants A and B to similar visitors at the same time.
Abandoned Carts DELIMITER Occurs when customers add products to their carts but leave your online store before making a purchase.
Abandonment DELIMITER In ecommerce, this term means a visitor has visited the website and have left the web page without making a desired action. It is a situation wherein a buyer has placed items in his shopping cart but leaves without purchasing them due to any reason. It is also called as cart abandonment. There are many other types of abandonment like booking abandonment, shipping abandonment etcetera but in tech world, shopping cart abandonment is widely used.
Address Verification Service AVS DELIMITER A system used to verify the address of a person claiming to own a credit card. Used when the merchant verifies credit card data, such as billing address and ZIP code, against the Visa or MasterCard billing information of the cardholder.
Affiliate DELIMITER A publisher or site owner that forwards qualified web traffic to an online merchant on a pay for performance basis is called an affiliate in the context of online marketing.
Affiliate links DELIMITER A unique link provided to affiliates to promote an online service that is then used to credit sale commissions to the affiliate. A typical link starts off with the original domain then ends with the affiliate ID number.
Affiliate Marketing DELIMITER Type of performance based marketing in which a business rewards one or more affiliates for each visitor customer brought by the affiliate's own marketing efforts.
Amazon Marketplace DELIMITER the largest third party ecommerce platform, choosing to sell on the Amazon Marketplace can help significantly boost volume through your store. Amazon charge fees on every sale through the Marketplace, and also offer Fulfilment By Amazon, where they handle the fulfillment process for your business at extra cost.
Application Programming Interface API DELIMITER An API is a protocol created to allow separate software solutions to communicate over a relatively simple interface. Developers will often use APIs to connect or integrate systems and services.
Attribution Model DELIMITER A set of rules or rule, that determines how credit for sales and conversions is assigned to touchpoints in conversion paths. Click here for more.
Average Order Value DELIMITER The average value your customer spends with you in a typical visit.
Average Time on Site DELIMITER In Web analytics, including Google Analytics, it is a type of visitor report that provides data on the amount of time in minutes or seconds visitors have spent on your website
B two B Business to Business DELIMITER Is where one business makes a commercial transaction with another. This typically occurs when a business is sourcing materials for their production process, for example, a food manufacturer purchasing salt
B two C Business to Consumer DELIMITER Is a business or transactions conducted directly between a company and consumers who are the end users of its products or services.
Big Data DELIMITER The name given to large amounts of customer information collected through ecommerce. There is a growing trend and interest in leveraging this data to make smarter business decisions.
Blog DELIMITER an essential for any ecommerce business, a blog is simply an online log of content relevant to your market. These should be bolted on to your ecommerce site, and most platforms you choose to run your site will have an inbuilt blogging function, so you can attract both traffic and links to your store.
Bootstrapping DELIMITER In business, bootstrapping is the concept of self  funding a new company, meaning that a business pays its operating expenses either with profits or from its founder's own investments, rather than accepting external capital.
Bounce Rate DELIMITER The percentage of people who visit one page on your website and leave without clicking on anything.
Brick and Click Store DELIMITER A retail outlet or business with at least one physical location and at least one ecommerce enabled website.
Brick and Mortar Store DELIMITER Refers to a physical presence of an organization or business in a building or other structure. The term brick and mortar business is often used to refer to a company that possesses or leases retail stores, factory production facilities, or warehouses for its operations.
Bundling or Product Bundling DELIMITER Is offering several products for sale as one combined product. It is a common feature in many imperfectly competitive product markets.
Cache DELIMITER Temporary data a computer stores to help websites load quicker. To clear your cache is to reload a web page with new data generally to see changes made during web development.
Call to action CTA DELIMITER Is an instruction to the audience to provoke an immediate response, usually using an imperative verb such as call now, find out more or visit a store today.
Cart Abandonment Rate DELIMITER An online shopping metric which shows the ratio of number of abandoned shopping carts to the number of completed orders. An abandoned shopping cart is when a user places products on his virtual shopping cart but does not complete the order.
Chargeback DELIMITER Is the return of funds to a consumer.
CMS DELIMITER Content Management System, a back end interface that makes editing content more user friendly, EG WordPress.
Cohort Analysis DELIMITER A segmentation technique that creates a unique group of visitors that share a common characteristic within a certain period of time. It's used to understand visitor behavior.
Content Management System CMS DELIMITER Is a computer application that supports the creation and modification of digital content using a simple interface to abstract away low level details unless required, usually supporting multiple users working in a collaborative environment. E.G.. WordPress, Drupla, Joomla!
Conversion DELIMITER An online marketing concept where you transform an online store visitor into a paying customer.
Conversion Funnel DELIMITER A Google Analytics metric which shows the series of events that your visitors follow to finally achieve conversion. It's called a funnel because in each event, a percentage of visitors leave your website so at the end of the funnel where the sale happens, there are fewer users than there were at the beginning.
Conversion Rate DELIMITER An online marketing concept which gives the percentage of online store visitors who transform into paying customers divided by visitors who are given the chance to fulfill it but did not.
Conversion Rate Optimization CRO DELIMITER A process in online marketing wherein the online marketer is involved in improving their ecommerce website layout, content and design, landing pages and sponsored search ads in order to increase their conversion rate.
Cookies DELIMITER Is a small piece of data sent from a website and stored in the user's web browser while the user is browsing.
Corporation DELIMITER A company or group of people authorized to act as a single entity legally a person and recognized as such in law.
CRO DELIMITER Conversion Rate Optimisation, the process of tweaking design, layout and text on your site to delivered a measured, consistent hike in conversion rates.
Cross  selling DELIMITER A marketing tactic where sellers present additional products that can complement, enhance or improve the main product they are selling for example, mobile phone cover for a mobile phone purchase
CTA DELIMITER Call To Action, the heading or phrase on your page encouraging the visitor to take action and click your buy button. CTAs have a proven impact on conversion rates.
Customer Lifetime Value the one hundred and fifty fifth DELIMITER Is a prediction of the net profit attributed to the entire future relationship with a customer.
Customer Relationship Management CRM DELIMITER A software solution specifically devoted to organizing, synchronizing, and automating a business' customer relationships.
Distributor DELIMITER A distribution business that inventories products from a number of manufacturers and sells to many retailers. Often distributors are able to offer shorter lead times than manufacturers and may sell in smaller quantities. It is common for distributors to charge a premium over a manufacturer direct price for the service and convenience provided.
Domain DELIMITER The root address for a web page.
Domain Name DELIMITER the web address of your online store, for example WWW dot myshop dot com.
Dropshipping DELIMITER A type of ecommerce arrangement where the manufacturer or distributor ships directly to your customers, often in generic packaging. This means you don't hold stock, but expect to pay a greater cost per item sold.
Dropshipping or Drop Shipping DELIMITER Is a supply chain management method in which the retailer does not keep goods in stock but instead transfers customer orders and shipment details to either the manufacturer, another retailer, or a wholesaler, who then ships the goods directly to the customer.
EBay DELIMITER an ecommerce giant, auction site EBay allows retailers access to a market of buyers. Sellers pay a listing fee and a percentage of the sale of the item on EBay, with the option to auction or set a Buy It no. Price. Ecommerce sellers often use EBay as an alternative three RD party marketplace, in addition to selling through their own site.
Ecommerce DELIMITER online retail, the process of selling products online and on mobile through shops, three RD party marketplaces like Amazon and EBay, and other channels.
Evolutionary Algorithms DELIMITER a type of algorithm put to use in generating artificially intelligent ecommerce systems, evolutionary algorithms test variables, find a winner and reset on loop, optimize the sales funnel to drive gradual, consistent improvements in conversion performance.
Fulfillment DELIMITER The process of receiving, packaging and shipping orders for goods. Any company selling products directly to consumers through the mail must deal with fulfillment.
Fulfillment DELIMITER A third party service which looks after warehousing, stock management and delivery. Usually charged at a set per item price, outsourcing fulfillment can save significantly on the costs of processing stock.
Google Analytics DELIMITER the industry standard for analytics, Google Analytics is a free tool you can link up with your website, enabling you to track traffic through your site and their interactions with you funnels and goals. Google Analytics provides invaluable insights about your website, which can be used as a basis for identify growth hacks.
Google Keyword Tool DELIMITER A free keyword suggestion tool included in the Google AdWords Platform. The tool uses data from the many searches conducted on the Google search engine to suggest keywords for a given URL and category. Click here for Google Keyword Tool.
Google Trends DELIMITER A search engine tool that shows how often a particular term or keyword is searched for on Google. Results are shown in a relative scale, making the tool well suited for comparing keywords or phrases. Trends will also show where searches came from and how search volume for a particular keyword has changed over time.
Google Webmaster Tools DELIMITER the main channel of communicating with Google as a website owner, Google Webmaster Tools gives feedback about your website and your Google rankings, from Google, so you can tweak and optimize your website performance for better results.
HTML Hyper Text Markup Language DELIMITER A markup language specifically created for displaying web pages and applications in web browsers. Like other markup languages, HTML annotates a document, describing its layout and syntax.
Inventory DELIMITER inventory is the stock in your business. As your store progresses, you will need to regularly check inventory levels, to ensure you are keeping an eye on shrinkage and minimum order levels, and that you are not promoting products you don't have in stock.
Landing Page DELIMITER a landing page is a page your customers will land on, either from paid traffic or search traffic, designed to maximize the chances of conversion on a desired action. In some cases, a landing page will be used to capture email addresses, or will simply pitch a product directly to the website visitor.
Landing Pages DELIMITER The section of a website accessed by clicking a hyperlink on another web page, typically the website's home page.
Logistics DELIMITER The management of products or other resources as they travel between a point of origin and a destination. In ecommerce, logistics might describe the process of transporting inventory to a merchant or the act of shipping orders to customers.
Long Tail DELIMITER The Long Tail is an idea that markets and marketplaces, especially online, are moving away from mainstream, broad appeal products toward niche products. In ecommerce, new retailers may find it easier and more cost effective to focus on niche products. Think large number of products that sell in small quantities, as contrasted with the small number of best selling products.
Long Tail Traffic DELIMITER Website traffic derived from Long Tail variation keywords or from niche searches and keywords in general.
Long Tail Variations DELIMITER In search engine optimization and pay per click advertising, they are keywords similar in meaning or root to other high volume keywords, but less competitive. Long Tail variations are often employed when a business is just starting out and cannot gain traction or afford to bid on top performing keywords
M commerce DELIMITER As mobile internet usage continues to grow, mobile commerce has naturally followed especially booming in Southeast Asia.
Manufacturer DELIMITER A company that makes goods for the purpose of sale.
Manufacturer's Suggested Retail Price MSRP DELIMITER Also known as Recommended Retail Price RRP, is the price the manufacturer recommends that the retailer sell the product. The intention is to help standardize prices among locations.
Margin DELIMITER margin is the profit percentage of a sale, after the cost of goods and expenses have been factored in. Margin percentage is an essential metric in establishing the level of profitability in a given sale or product line.
Margins DELIMITER The difference between what a retailer pays for a product and what the retailer's customer pays for the product. Margin calculations may consider only the cost of the goods sold or may take into account overhead and other variable costs.
Merchant Account DELIMITER An online bank account which accepts credit card payments, IE where payments made to an ecommerce store are submitted.
Minimum Order Size DELIMITER Manufacturers or distributors may require retailers to place orders that meet a minimum value or unit count. This requirement would be the minimum order size.
Multi Channel Ecommerce DELIMITER multichannel ecommerce is the process of selling goods and services across multiple different channels and devices, including online and on mobile.
Multi Channel Retailing DELIMITER Retailing products through more than one channel where channels include online stores, online marketplaces like Amazon, physical stores, physical catalogs, and similar.
Net Profit DELIMITER The difference between a business' revenue and its costs all of its costs. Net profit may be thought of as the money left over after every bill is paid.
Niche DELIMITER A distinct market segment.
Olark DELIMITER an industry leading IM chat support client with analytics functions, useful in increasing conversion rates and providing more comprehensive support to customers and leads on a real time basis.
Order Tracking DELIMITER The process in which a customer views the progress of their order leading up to delivery. This is generally orchestrated using a tracking code provided when a purchase is completed.
Organic DELIMITER In the context of search engine optimization and search engine marketing, organic results are those listings search engines show because of their relevance to a query, not because a site owner paid for an ad or paid to be featured.
Outsource DELIMITER hiring third party providers to handle elements or functions of your business on your behalf, outsourcing is commonplace in ecommerce, on everything from web design to logistics and fulfillment.
Overhead DELIMITER The ongoing expenses associated with operating a business.
Patent DELIMITER License conferring a right or title for a set period, especially the sole right to exclude others from making, using, or selling an invention.
Pay Per Click PPC DELIMITER An online advertising model wherein advertisers pay only when a prospect clicks on an advertisement and is directed to the advertiser's website. Google's AdWords platform is an example of pay per click promotion.
Payment Gateway DELIMITER the payment processor used to handle transactions on your ecommerce store, your payment gateway can be either on site or off site, depending on what works best for your model.
Payment Processors or Payment Gateways DELIMITER Both allow ecommerce merchants to processes payments from sales. They verify the card information with credit card companies who then approve the transaction.
PayPal DELIMITER one of the leading payment processors, preferred by a number consumers over any other single payment method. Owned by EBay, PayPal is an essential component of your ecommerce payment setup.
Per Order Fee DELIMITER When a manufacturer or distributor drop ships an order directly to a customer on a retailers behave that manufacturer or distributor may change a per  order fee for processing.
Performance Marketing DELIMITER Refers to online marketing and advertising programs in which advertisers retailers' or merchants' and marketing companies affiliates or publishers are paid when a specific action is completed such as a sale, lead or click. Click here for more.
PPC DELIMITER Pay per click, a form of advertising where you bid on specific keywords and pay every time someone clicks your advert and is directed to your website. Google AdWords is the most well known example of a PPC network.
Profit Margin DELIMITER The difference between what a retailer pays for a product and what the retailer's customer pays for the product. Margin calculations may consider only the cost of the goods sold or may take into account overhead and other variable costs.
Qualitative Metrics DELIMITER In online marketing, qualitative metrics seek to measure the quality of a customer interaction, and may be subjective in nature. A retailer, as an example, may implement a new product review campaign, compare reviews written before and after the campaign, awarding each review a qualitative score, and then use the relative scored to decide if the campaign was successful.
Quantitative Metrics DELIMITER In online marketing, quantitative metrics are those measures that may be represented as numbers. Click through rates, visitor counts, and time onsite are all examples of quantitative metrics.
Reseller DELIMITER A company that purchases goods or services for the purpose of resale not consumption. In web economics, a re  seller may also be a form of affiliate marketer, promoting a rebranded service.
Responsive DELIMITER Websites that allow users to view and use the website easily on all screen sizes.
Retailer DELIMITER A company that sells directly to the end consumer.
Search Engine Marketing SEM DELIMITER The promotion of websites by increasing their visibility in search engine results pages SERPs primarily through paid advertising.
Search Engine Optimization SEO DELIMITER The process of making a website easier for search engine bots to index and categorize.
Search Engine Results Page SERP DELIMITER A search engine web page displaying the list of responses to a particular search query.
SEO DELIMITER Search engine optimization, the process of setting out your website and building links in a Google friendly way, to ensure your website is given the best possible ranking within relevant SERPs.
SERP DELIMITER Search engine results page, the page that is generated by searching for a given phrase on Google. SEO is all about moving up the SERPs, so your website is clickable from position number one of page one, or as close to that as possible.
Shipping DELIMITER A charge imposed by a retail company to send merchandise to a customer.
Social Media DELIMITER Facebook, Twitter, Google Plus, Instagram, Pinterest and others, social media is a collecting of platforms where businesses can tap into targeted audiences through advertising, or through a comprehensive social media strategy.
Social Media Marketing SMM DELIMITER A form of Internet marketing that utilizes social networking websites as a marketing tool. The goal of SMM is to produce content that users will share with their social network to help a company increase brand exposure and broaden customer reach. Vital to an online strategy in Southeast Asia.
Social Signals DELIMITER Social signals are a ranking factor in Google, drawn from social networks like Twitter, Facebook and Google Plus. Similar to links, they allow Google to determine which websites people are more likely to be interested in looking at, as one element of the wider ranking equation.
Sole Proprietorship DELIMITER A type of business entity that is owned and run by one person and in which there is no legal distinction between the owner and the business. It is not a legal entity. It simply refers to a person who owns the business and is personally responsible for its debts.
Split Testing DELIMITER Testing two separate elements of your ecommerce mix to establish which performs better, side by side testing to optimize your website.
Supply Chain DELIMITER The oversight of materials, information, and finances as they move in a process from supplier to manufacturer to wholesaler to retailer to consumer. Supply chain management involves coordinating and integrating these flows both within and among companies.
Traffic DELIMITER the levels of visitors coming to your site from a number of sources, traffic is the input side of the ecommerce equation. More traffic generally results in more business, equivalent to footfall in the real world environment.
UI User Interface DELIMITER The means by which the user and a computer system interact, in particular the use of input devices and software.
Usability DELIMITER Ease of use of a website. Some broad goals of usability are the presentation of information and choices in a clear and concise way, a lack of ambiguity and the placement of important items in appropriate areas. KISS principle keep it simple, stupid.
UX User Experience DELIMITER Is a person's entire experience using a particular product, system or service. It includes the practical, experiential, meaningful and valuable aspects of human computer interaction and product ownership.
Vertical DELIMITER An industry segment made up of similar business and customers.
Web Hosting DELIMITER Where data for your ecommerce site is stored. This network of computers allow customers to access the information needed to load your website on their computer.
Wholesale DELIMITER the stage in the supply chain before retail, wholesale deals in bulk volumes. You may be buying stock wholesale, or selling wholesale to another trade party.
WordPress DELIMITER WordPress is a free, open source blogging platform, used as a basis for creating ecommerce stores and a series of other websites. WordPress ties up with WooCommerce and others to provide ecommerce functionality through the WordPress platform.
WP Engine DELIMITER the best hosting solution for those running ecommerce stores on WordPress, WooCommerce is robust, fast and scalable to meet the needs of your business as it grows.
