The roof support on either side of a car's windshield
Pillars are vertical supports on a vehicle. pillars hold glass in place and add structural integrity. the a pillar holds the windshield in place
An extremely sophisticated, computer controlled suspension system that uses powered actuators instead of conventional springs and shock absorbers. the actuators position a cars wheels in the best possible manner to deal with road disturbances and handling loads.
A front spoiler mounted beneath the bumper and shaped to reduce the airflow under the car. air dams can increase the airflow to radiators, reduce aerodynamic drag, and or reduce lift.
A tune in front suspension characteristic that converts breaking induced forces in the suspension links into a vertical force that tends to lift the body, thereby reducing dive under braking.
A braking system that senses when any of the wheels have locked up or are about to and automatically reduces the braking forces to keep the wheels rolling. commonly called anti lock brake system, such a system can control all four wheels or only two.
Anti lock brakes include special sensors that detect when wheels lock up or when they are about to lock up. the system then reduces the braking force so the wheels continue to roll. anti lock brake system can control two or four wheels.
A suspension element used at the front, the rear, or both ends of a car that reduces body roll by resisting any unequal vertical motion between the pair of wheels to which it is connected. an anti roll bar does not affect suspension stiffness when both wheels are deflected equally in the same direction. often incorrectly called a sway bar.
A device that aids in preventing a vehicle from being stolen.
Similar to anti dive, this suspension characteristic uses acceleration induced forces in the rear suspension to reduce squat.
A suspension system designed to prevent the drive wheels from overly compressing during hard launched.
The points or region on the line through a corner that touches the corners inner radius.
In a turn, the part of the turn where drivers are closest to the inside of the corner. after hitting the apex, drivers are focused on exiting the corner.
Generally the ratio between two dimensions of an object. in tire terminology it applies to the unloaded sidewall height of the tire divided by its overall width. a lower aspect ratio implies a shorter, wider tire. when used to describe a wing it is the span of the airfoil the long dimension perpendicular to the airflow divided by its chord the dimension parallel to the airflow.
A form of wheel hop that occurs on cars with live axles, caused by the axle repeatedly rotating slightly with the wheels and then springing back.
The roof support between a cars front door window and rear side window, if there is one.
The vertical roof support structure that is located between the front and rear doors on a typical vehicle.
A shaft designed so that, as it rotates, it vibrates in a way that reduces or cancels some of the vibration produced by an engine. not essential to an engines operation, balance shafts are nonetheless becoming increasingly common as a means of engine refinement. balance shafted four cylinder engines use two shafts turning in opposite directions on either side of the engines crankshaft. a single balance shaft is used when fitted to three cylinder and v six engines.
A flexible joint consisting of a ball in a socket, used primarily in front suspensions because it can accommodate a wide range of angular motion.
A rigid axle supporting the non driven wheels. also called a dead axle.
The line running around a cars body formed by the bottom edges of its glass panels
A horizontal line defined by the lower edges of the windshield, rear, and side windows and pillars.
A gearset employing gears shaped like slices of a cone, which allows the axes of the gears to be non parallel. bevel gears are used to transmit motion through an angle.
Conical gears most often used to connect two shafts which meet at a ninety degree angle.
The increase above atmospheric pressure produced inside the intake manifold by any supercharger. it is commonly measured in pounds per square inch, inches of mercury, or bar.
The front or rear distribution of a cars braking power. for the shortest stopping distance, brake bias should match the cars traction at each end during hard braking brake modulation, the process of varying pedal pressure to hold a cars brakes on the verge of lockup. ideally, the brakes will unlock with only a slight reduction in the pressure needed to lock them. typically, however, a considerable pressure reduction is required.
The process of varying pedal pressure to hold a cars brakes on the verge of lockup. ideally, the brakes will unlock with only a slight reduction in the pressure needed to lock them. typically, however, a considerable pressure reduction is required.
A procedure generally used in performance tests to improve the off the line acceleration of a car equipped with an automatic transmission. it is executed by firmly depressing the brake with the left foot, applying the throttle with the car in gear to increase engine revolutions per minute, then releasing the brakes. brake torquing is particularly effective with turbocharged cars because it helps overcome turbo lag.
A term used to describe an engines ability to fill its cylinders with air fuel mixture and then discharge the burnt exhaust gases. in general, the more air fuel mixture an engine burns the more power it produces.
A simple suspension bearing that accommodates limited rotary motion, typically made of two coaxial steel tubes bonded to a sleeve of rubber between them. the compliance of the bushing in different directions has a great effect on ride harshness and handling.
The roof support between a car's rearmost side window and its rear window. on a vehicle with four side pillars, the rearmost roof support may be called a d pillar.
Support structure of the rear window on a sedan or coupe.
The shape of each lobe on a camshaft. the profile determines the amount, or  duration,  of time the valve is open, it also largely determines the valves maximum opening, or  lift. 
The angle between the plane of a wheels circumference and a vertical line, measured in degrees and minutes. the tops of a cars wheels tilt inward when the camber is negative, outward when it is positive.
A shaft fitted with several cams, whose lobes push on valve lifters to convert rotary motion into linear motion. the opening and closing of the valves in all piston engines is regulated by one or more camshafts.
The camshaft is a shaft with a series of lobes which regulate the opening of an engine's intake and exhaust valves.
Threadlike strands of pure carbon that are extremely strong in tension that is, when pulled and are reasonably flexible. carbon fiber can be bound in a matrix of plastic resin by heat, vacuum, or pressure to form a composite that is strong and light, and very expensive.
The angle between a vertical line and the car's steering axis when viewed from the side, measured in degrees and minutes.
Often simply called a  catalyst , this is a stainless steel canister fitted to a car's exhaust system that contains a thin layer of catalytic material spread over a large area of inert supports. the material used is some combination of platinum, rhodium, and palladium, it induces chemical reactions that convert an engine's exhaust emissions into less harmful products. so called three way catalysts are particularly efficient, their operation, however, demands very precise combustion control, which can be produced only by a feedback fuel air ratio control system.
A differential used in four wheel drive systems to distribute power to the front and rear differentials.
A general term that refers to all of the mechanical parts of a car attached to a structural frame. in cars with unitized construction, the chassis comprises everything but the body of the car.
A blanket description of the base frame of a vehicle and the mechanical parts that are attached to it, including the powertrain and suspension.
A bar of resilient metal wound into a spiral that may be compressed or extended without permanent deformation. coil springs have many automotive applications but are particularly important as suspension springs.
A suspension spring made from coiled wire having a cylindrical or conical outline.
The space within the cylinder when the piston is at the top of its travel. it is formed by the top of the piston and a cavity in the cylinder head. since most of the air fuel mixture combustion takes place in this space, its design and shape can greatly affect the power, fuel efficiency, and emissions of the engine.
A slight resiliency, or  give,  designed into suspension bushings to help absorb bumps. good compliance allows the wheels to move rearward a bit as they hit bumps but does not allow them to move laterally during cornering.
Any material that consists of two or more components, typically one or more of high strength and one an adhesive binder. the most common composite is fiberglass, which consists of thin glass fibers bonded together in a plastic matrix. the structural properties of composites can be altered by controlling the orientation and configuration of the high strength components.
The ratio between the combined volume of a cylinder and a combustion chamber when the piston is at the bottom of its stroke, and the volume when the piston is at the top of its stroke. the higher the compression ratio, the more mechanical energy an engine can squeeze from its air fuel mixture. higher compression ratios, however, also make detonation more likely.
A particular kind of universal joint designed so that there is no cyclic fluctuation between the speeds of its input and output shafts.
A suspension element that has one joint at one end and two joints at the other end, typically the chassis side. also known as a wishbone or an a arm.
The maximum speed at which a car can negotiate a given curve.
A closed car with two side doors and less than thirty three cubic feet of rear interior volume, according to measurements based on society of automotive engineers standard j eleven hundred. a two door car is therefore not necessarily a coupe.
A shaft with one or more cranks, or  throws,  that are coupled by connecting rods to the engine's pistons. together, the crankshaft and the conrods transform the pistons reciprocating motion into rotary motion.
The round, straight sided cavity in which the pistons move up and down. typically made of cast iron and formed as a part of the block.
The aluminum or iron casting that houses the combustion chambers, the intake and exhaust ports, and much or all of the valvetrain. the head or heads, if an engine has more than one bank of cylinders is always directly above the cylinders.
The circular housing that the piston moves in when the cylinder is not an integral part of the block. also known as a  sleeve. 
A unit of measure for decibels, the measure of sound intensity or pressure named after alexander graham bell. it is a logarithmic measurement, every three d b increase represents a doubling of the sound pressure. the  a  in d b a indicates that the measurement was taken with an a weighted scale, sound pressure varies across the audible spectrum, and the weighted scale approximates the human ear's sensitivity to various frequencies.
A suspension system in which the rear, driven wheels are bolted to a transverse, lightweight, rigid member. power is delivered to the wheels by universal joint half shafts attached to a body mounted differential.
A type of non independent suspension which uses universal joints at both the differential wheels. an improvement from a live axle, thought not as sophisticated as independent suspension. 
A footrest found to the left of the leftmost pedal. it provides a place for the driver to brace his left leg during hard cornering.
A foot rest located to the far left of the pedal box. does not impact the operation of the vehicle.
A condition in which, after the spark plug fires, some of the unburned air fuel mixture in the combustion chamber explodes spontaneously, set off only by the heat and pressure of the air fuel mixture that has already been ignited. detonation, or  knock,  greatly increases the mechanical and thermal stresses on the engine.
An undesirable engine characteristic, when the fuel air mixture combusts after the spark has been fired. also referred to as  knocking, engine knock, or  pinging 
A special gearbox designed so that the torque fed into it is split and delivered to two outputs that can turn at different speeds. differentials within axles are designed to split torque evenly, however, when used between the front and rear axles in four wheel drive systems a center differential, they can be designed to apportion torque unevenly.
Properly called caliper disc brakes, a type of brake that consists of a disc that rotates at wheel speed, straddled by a caliper that can squeeze the surfaces of the disc near its periphery. disc brakes provide a more linear response and operate more efficiently at high temperatures and wet conditions than drum brakes.
The dipping of a car's nose that occurs when the brakes are applied. dive is caused by a load transfer from the rear to the front suspension; this transfer occurs because the car's center of gravity, through which all inertial forces pass, is higher than its contact patches, the points where the braking forces are exerted on the ground.
Double overhead camshaft, a double overhead camshaft engine has two camshafts in each cylinder head, one camshaft operates the intake valves, the other actuates the exhaust valves
A vertical force directed downward, produced by airflow around an object, such as a car body.
A dimensionless measure of the aerodynamic sleekness of an object. a sleek car has a drag coefficient, or  c d,  of about zero point three zero, a square, flat plate's is one point nine eight. also signified by c x.
The general qualitative evaluation of a powertrain's operating qualities, including idle smoothness, cold and hot starting, throttle response, power delivery, and tolerance for altitude changes.
Whether or not a vehicle is easy to drive. automotive industry jargon that correlates to  able  and  drive .
Everything in the drivetrain, less the engine and the transmission.
Assembly of various parts such as the driveshaft, universal joints, and connecting yokes that transmit torque from the transmission to the differential. 
The shaft that transmits power from the transmission to the differential.
All of a car's components that create power and transmit it to the wheels, that is, the engine, the transmission, the differentials, the hubs, and any interconnecting shafts.
A type of brake that has an iron casting shaped like a shallow drum that rotates with the wheel. curved brake shoes are forced into contact with the inner periphery of this drum to provide braking.
Exhaust gas recirculation is a method of reducing oxides of nitrogen exhaust emissions by recirculating some of the engine's exhaust gas into the intake manifold. the exhaust gas serves as inert filler that absorbs heat during the combustion process and reduces the peak temperature reached during combustion.
A computerized brain, engine control unit that regulates an engine's operation by monitoring certain engine characteristics revolutions per minute, coolant temperature, intake airflow, et cetera through a network of sensors and then controlling key variables fuel metering, spark timing, engine control unit, et cetera according to preprogrammed schedules.
Laboratory fuel economy tests administered by the environmental protection agency using simulated weight and drag to recreate real driving conditions. the tests were updated for the two thousand and eight model year to better reflect current driving conditions.
The network of passages that gathers the exhaust gases from the various exhaust ports and routes them toward the catalysts and mufflers of the exhaust system. a manifold with free flowing passages of a carefully designed configuration, called a  header,  can improve breathing.
The passageway in the cylinder head leading from the exhaust valves to the exhaust manifold.
A feature of a computer controlled fuel system. by using a sensor to measure the oxygen content of the engine's exhaust, the system keeps the fuel air ratio very close to the proportion for chemically perfect combustion. such tight control of the fuel air ratio is mandatory for the proper operation of three way catalysts.
A composite material that relies on small glass fibers for its strength.
The reduction ratio, found in the gearset of a drivetrain, that is furthest removed from the engine. typically, the differential ratio.
The largest and most important stamped metal part in a car's body. usually assembled from several smaller stampings, the floorpan forms the floor and fixes the dimensions for most of the car's exterior and structural panels. it is also the foundation for many of the car's mechanical parts
Is the floor of the car body, fixing the dimensions of the external and structural panels.
Any device that transfers power through a fluid between its inputs and outputs. a fluid coupling basically consists of two fans in a sealed, oil filled housing. the input fan churns the oil, and the churning oil in turn twirls the output fan. such a coupling allows some speed difference between its input and output shafts.
A heavy disc attached to an engine's crankshaft to increase its rotary inertia, thereby smoothing its power flow.
Frontmost part of a clutch assembly that is bolted to the engine crankshaft with a rear surface to provide a smooth friction area for the disc front facing to contact clutch engagement.
A valve train with a total of four valves in the combustion chamber, typically two intakes and two exhausts. compared to the more common two valve per cylinder designs, a four valve layout offers improved breathing and allows the spark plug to be located closer to center of the combustion chamber.
A somewhat imprecise term that describes a cornering situation in which all four tires are operating at large slip angles.
A steering system that actively steers the rear wheels as well as the fronts in the interest of improving handling and maneuverability.
Any system that meters fuel to an engine by measuring its needs and then regulating the fuel flow, by electronic or mechanical means, through a pump and injectors. throttle body injection locates the injectors centrally in the throttle body housing, while port injection allocates at least one injector for each cylinder near its intake port.
A system that delivers a high pressure fuel stream in an internal combustion engine.
The rotation about a vertical axis that passes through the car's center of gravity.
A steering system whose geometry has a scrub radius of zero. this configuration minimizes the steering effects produced during acceleration with front drive or braking on varying traction surfaces
Empty
Empty
An engine driven pump in the air conditioning system that increases the pressure of the refrigerant.
The air conditioning compressor is the central element of the air conditioning system in a motor vehicle. it compresses the refrigerant in the refrigerant circuit of the air conditioner.
A hose used to drain condensation from the air conditioner evaporator.
When your air conditioning unit converts refrigerant from a liquid to a gas, the air conditioning drain hose removes the water released.
The linkage between the accelerator pedal and a vehicles throttle body or carburetor.
The accelerator pedal linkage connects the accelerator pedal to the throttle body or carburetor throttle valve.
Active cornering enhancement filter. a device used in an electrohydraulic suspension system to reduce body roll by adjusting the system to driving conditions.
Also known as a bank fee,  an administrative fee  or an assignment fee.  for a vehicle lease, a fee charged by the leasing company at the inception of the lease that is intended to cover a variety of administrative costs, such as obtaining a credit report, verifying insurance coverage, checking the accuracy and completeness of the lease documentation, and entering the lease into its data and accounting systems
An electronic system designed to warn drivers of impending pedestrian traffic.
This onboard system warns drivers of impending pedestrian traffic.
Also referred to as  a c v.  a method of valuing insured property that is computed by subtracting depreciation based on the property's age and condition from its replacement cost. compare  replacement cost. 
The amount of money your car is worth, whether at buy date or sale date.
A laser or radar sensing cruise control system that causes a vehicle to automatically slow or stop in order to avoid front end collisions.
A cruise control system that adjusts speed to maintain a safe distance from vehicles ahead.
Headlights that turn as the driver turns the steering wheel, for the purpose of improving illumination in the direction of the turn.
This feature increases visibility around curves and hills while driving at night.
Accelerator and brake pedals that can be moved closer to or further away from the drivers' seat.
Adjustable pedals move forward or backward to the driver. the pedals can include the brake, accelerator, and clutch pedals. this can provide an improved position with the steering wheel.
A suspension that offers driver selectable damper and sometimes spring firmness settings to suit varying conditions and personal preferences.
Adjustable suspension could mean two things. either adjusting the ride height of the car or changing the handling characteristics.
For a moving vehicle, the force exerted by the flowfield of air moving in the opposite direction.
Sometimes called automobile drag coefficient. drag is a force that acts parallel and in the same direction as the airflow. the drag coefficient impacts the way the automobile passes through the surrounding air.
An accessory or piece of equipment that is not included in the vehicle as manufactured, but is purchased and installed at the dealership or other automotive establishments.
Aftermarket accessories include vehicle customization products made by third party manufacturers.
The liquid used in air conditioning systems, which has the property of boiling at ambient air temperatures.
Air conditioner refrigerant keeps the air coming from your air conditioning system cool. you will find r twenty two in air conditioning units older than ten years. r twenty two is better known as freon, and identified by the environmental protection agency as h c f c twenty two.
The cooling and dehumidification of a vehicles cabin air.
Your car's air conditioning system takes the heat and moisture out of the air already in your car. what is left is cooler air.
A device that removes contaminants from external air entering the ventilation system.
A device that filters incoming air fed to the engine.
A device that identifies an impedance to the air filter system.
A device that indicates an obstruction to the air filter system.
The removal of solid particulates such as dust, pollen, mold and bacteria from a vehicle's cabin air by a filter placed in the ventilation system.
A score from zero to ten given by the environmental protection agency to each new vehicle that represents the amount of air pollutants produced during a laboratory driving simulation of the vehicle.
A device that eliminates contaminants from the air supply fed to the air injection system.
A system that uses sensors in a vehicle's front passenger seat to determine whether to activate that seat's front airbag, based on whether it detects the presence of an individual of sufficient weight.
A system that determines whether to activate the front passenger seat's airbag. this is based on the weight of the individual in the seat.
A cushion that deploys and fills with air when a major impact occurs to reduce a vehicle occupants chances of coming in contact with the vehicles interior surfaces
Airbags are a safety device fitted inside a vehicle. airbag cushions inflate in the event of a collision. airbags keep passengers from being flung against the vehicle's structure.
The steepest angle of inclined roadway onto which a vehicle can be driven from a level roadway without the vehicles forward overhang making contact with the inclined surface.
The steepest angle of inclined roadway from which a vehicle can be driven onto a level roadway without the vehicles rear overhang making contact with the inclined surface.
The type of antennas used in vehicle audio systems and navigation systems, mast, power telescoping, element and diversity.
The reinforced hose or hoses with metal fittings at either end that carry high pressure hydraulic fluid used in an antilock brake system.
In an antilock brake system, the reinforced hose that carries high pressure hydraulic fluid.
A device or system of devices that aid in preventing a vehicle from being stolen.
Can be applied to a wide variety of systems including but not limited to alarms, kill switches, and steering wheel locks, designed to make vehicles more difficult to steal. 
A device that uses an auditory signal and telemetric to alert a vehicles owner of an attempted theft.
A device that uses an auditory signal to alert of a potential vehicle theft or breakin.
A four to six digit numerical key necessary to return functionality to a vehicles audio head unit after it has been removed or disconnected from the battery.
An electronic device that works together with a key that includes a small transmitter and that prevents the engine from starting when the key is not present.
An electronic device that prevents a vehicle engine from starting.
An electronic device that unlocks a vehicles doors and, in some cases, opens its trunk, rolls down its windows and opens and closes its sunroof.
Coolant.
A liquid that mixes with the water in a cooling system of a vehicle's engine. antifreeze keeps the water from freezing in the winter or cold climates, or from overheating in the summer or hot climates.
Advanced technology partial zero emission vehicle. an emissions standard that meets partial zero emission vehicle requirements and has additional zero emissions characteristics, such as operation by natural gas or hybrid vehicle batteries.
A partial zero emission vehicle. such vehicles may not qualify for zero emissions standards tax credits, but has zero emissions from its fuel system and meets other emissions requirements.
Honda's automatic torque transfer system, which is a system that distributes an engines torque output proportionately between the driven axles so that the output is most effectively used.
Hydraulic fluid used in honda's automatic torque transfer system.
The format of digital compression readable by a vehicles audio system, such as windows media t m audio, m p three, w a v, super audio compact disk or advanced audio coding.
Type of audio available in an audio system, such as m p three, w a v, super audio compact disk or advanced audio coding.
A wireless device that uses infrared or radio waves to control a vehicle's sound system.
A device that controls a vehicle's sound system with infrared or radio waves
A feature that keeps the headlights on for a period after a vehicle is shut off to provide the occupants with light as they walk away from the vehicle.
A safety feature where headlights remain on after a vehicle is shut off to provide the occupants with light as they walk away from the vehicle.
Electrochromatic rearview mirror.
A suspension that adjusts the height of the vehicle so that its rear stays even with the front when cargo is carried, some systems offer multiple height settings for offroad, normal and high speed operation.
A device that prevents the starter from functioning unless the shifter is in the park or neutral position, and prevents the shifter from being moved unless the brake pedal is depressed.
Direct shift gearbox and  sequential manual gearbox.  a conventional clutch type manual transmission that employs electronic, pneumatic and hydraulic actuators in place of a conventional clutch pedal, and a purely mechanical shift lever. the driver may select either fully automatic shift mode or driver controlled shift mode.
A clutch type manual transmission that employs electronic, pneumatic and hydraulic actuators in place of a conventional clutch pedal, and a purely mechanical shift lever. direct shift gearbox and  sequential manual gearbox.  drivers may select either fully automatic shift mode or driver controlled shift mode. generally found on high performance vehicles.
A device that automatically unlocks a vehicles doors after a collision.
A combination transmission and differential or drive axle assembly.
The external filter on an automatic transmission.
A transmission that uses a torque converter, planetary gearset and clutches or bands to automatically change a vehicles gears.
In an automatic transmission, adjustable circular straps lined with a friction material that are actuated to tighten around and stop the rotation of a drum as part of the shifting process.
Flexible tubes that carry transmission fluid to and from a heat exchanger or oil cooler.
A component in most automatic transmissions that is fitted over the fluid intake, usually in the pan, that prevents debris and other contaminants from circulating throughout the transmissions inner workings and potentially causing unnecessary wear or damage. some transmissions use a reusable metal or nylon mesh type screen in place of a disposable filter.
The fluid used for lubricating and cooling an automatic transmission.
Factory installed, optional parts that supplement similar existing systems, such as a transmission cooler, engine cooler or a secondary gas tank, that are typically available on trucks and sport utility vehicles.
A method of connecting a peripheral media player to a vehicles entertainment system, either wired for example, through an radio corporation of america jack, a universal serial bus port or a one or eight tip, ring, and sleeve plug, or wirelessly for example, through bluetooth, advanced audio distribution profile or infrared.
A system where an external media player can connect to an onboard entertainment system. this may be wired, through an radio corporation of america jack or universal serial bus port, or wireless, through bluetooth or infrared.
A halogen lamp or light emitting diode light emitting diode that is used to illuminate a specific region or part of a vehicle such as the glove box or footwell and is not located in the vehicles headliner.
Interior lamps or light emitting diode lighting positioned over specific portions of the vehicle. these usually illuminate areas such as the glove box or the footwell. they are not located in the headliner.
Electronic devices designed to keep a driver awake and alert while driving a vehicle.
Devices which help keep the driver of a vehicle alert and awake.
All wheel drive. a drivetrain that employs a front, rear and center differential to provide power to all four wheels of a vehicle.
The liquid used for lubricating gears inside the axle.
The number of revolutions a vehicles driveshaft makes for each revolution of the vehicles drive axles.
Of the vehicle's drive axle, the number of revolutions the driveshaft makes.
A device or system of devices usually a park distance sensor or a backup camera designed to aid a drivers control of a vehicle in reverse.
Devices usually a camera designed to help drivers park a vehicle in reverse.
A cogged belt that drives a shaft usually in synchronization with the engines crankshaft for the purpose of smoothing out vibrations.
The manufacturers suggested retail price of a vehicle before options, destination fee, any dealer advertising fee and other costs.
The manufacturer's suggested retail price without any options, shipping, or dealer advertising fees. does not include bank fees or acquisition fees.
A vehicle warranty that covers everything except items that are subject to wear and tear or replacement in the ordinary course of vehicle ownership, such as oil and air filters, wiper blades and brake pads. tires and batteries are often excluded, but usually have their own warranty provided by the manufacturers of those items. emissions equipment is required by federal law to be covered for two years or twenty four thousand miles.
Warranty type that covers everything except items subject to routine wear and tear. this also may not cover replacement items in the ordinary course of ownership which may include air filters, engine oil, wiper blades, and brake pads. by federal law, emissions equipment is required to be covered for two years.
A device that automatically disconnects a vehicles battery after a collision.
A device that stops power from being transferred from the battery to the vehicle's electrical system. can be manual or automatic. many post crash systems employ an automatic battery disconnect to reduce the risk of fire.  
The physical dimensions of a trucks bed, consisting of width, height and depth.
Width, height, and depth of the pickup bed.
A device that may be added to a pickup truck's bed when the tailgate is open, that sits on top of the tailgate, and that forms an enclosure that permits items that extend past the bed and onto the tailgate to be carried without risk of falling out.
An external part that sits on top of a pickup truck's tailgate to extend the usable portion of the tailgate when hauling items that may be longer than the bed itself.
Factory installed, optional accessories that add functionality or longevity to a trucks bed, such as a bed extender, tonneau cover or bed liner, that are typically available on trucks and sport utility vehicles.
The inside length of a pickup truck's cargo box or  bed,  measured from the front wall to the face of the closed tailgate.
Interior length of a cargo box or bed of the pickup.
A heavy duty plastic liner or spray on coating that protects the inner painted surface of a pickup truck's cargo box.
Protective liner or spray on coating on the inner surface of a trucks cargo box.
Type of truck bed, long, short, flare side, step side, dually and flatbeds for trucks, and dump beds and tanks for sport utility vehicles.
One of the types of truck beds long, short, flare side, step side, dually and flat beds. includes beds and tanks for trucks and sport utility vehicles.
A refrigerated storage area intended to cool beverages using a vehicle's air conditioning system or a separate phase cooling system.
Storage area intended to cool beverages with the help of the air conditioning system.
In an evaporative emissions system, a valve that limits the flow of vapor from the charcoal canister to the intake during idling.
A valve that limits the flow of vapor during idling.
Also referred to as  biodiesel.  a fuel that is a mixture of petroleum based diesel and plant based diesel.
A plant based diesel, often made from corn oil. several versions are available some are entirely plant based, while others contain some petro diesel.
The area behind and to the side of a vehicle that is hard to see in either the side or rear view mirrors.
An area of obstructed view in the side mirrors.
An electronic system that warns you when there are other cars or motorcycles in your blind spot. 
An alert system that warns the driver when another vehicle or pedestrian may be in the path of the driver's blind spot.
An electric heater installed into a freeze plug hole in an engine block that preheats engine coolant in order to help start a vehicle under extremely cold weather conditions.
An electric heater that preheats engine coolant to start a vehicle under extremely cold weather conditions.
The outer panels that shroud the mechanical and electrical workings of a vehicle.
The outer frame and panels of a vehicle.
Drain holes in strategic locations that provide an escape route for water that would otherwise remain trapped within a vehicles body.
Drain holes that allow for the expulsion of water from the vehicle body interior.
Upholstered foam supports integrated into a seat that help keep the driver or passenger in an optimal position.
In a seat, these foam supports that keep the driver in an ergonomic position, and prevent sliding.
The diameter, in inches, of the cylinders in the vehicles engine.
Diameter of the cylinders of an engine.
A vacuum based device that amplifies the foot pressure applied to power brakes.
When pressure is applied to power brakes, this device amplifies the pressure.
The linkage pivot points behind some brake boosters.
A system that dries the brake pads through light friction just before a full stop is initiated, by using the anti lock brake system pump to bring the brake pads close to the rotors without significantly engaging them.
Before a full stop is initiated, this system dries the brake pads. it uses the anti lock braking system pump to bring the brake pads close to the rotors without engaging them.
The fluid used in the hydraulic brake system.
Tubes and their connections that carry brake fluid between the various components in a vehicle's brake system.
Tubes to carry brake fluid in a brake system.
High friction, heat resistant material that is attached to the brake shoes in a rear drum brake system.
In a drum brake system, a heat resistant material that is attached to the brake shoes.
A device that stores brake fluid and hydraulically forces it through the brake lines to the brakes when the brake pedal is depressed.
When the brake pedal is depressed, this device forces brake fluid through the brake lines.
High friction material attached to a metal backing plate.
High friction material attached to a backing plate. these contact the brake rotors to slow the vehicle.
A device used to control a vehicles brakes.
A spring attached to the pedal assembly that provides some resistance during pedal depression and also assists in returning the pedal to an upright position.
During pedal depression, the spring aids in resistance and returning the pedal to the upright position.
A system that monitors the swiftness of a driver's brake pedal application and applies additional braking force if it determines a that panic stop is occurring.
During braking, this system identifies whether a panic stop is occurring and applies additional braking force if necessary.
A permanent designation on a vehicles title, registration or permit documents that indicates that a vehicle has incurred damage the repair of which is not possible or would cost more than the vehicle is worth, or that the vehicle has been sold for scrap. while branding designations vary by state, typical branding titles include rebuilt, salvage, irreparable and theft recovery.
Types of branding titles include rebuilt, salvage, irreparable damage, and theft recovery. a branded title indicates a vehicle is beyond repair or repair could cost more than the vehicle is worth.
The maximum angle at which a vehicle can traverse a sharp ridge without making contact or hanging up between axles.
A metallic, tubular attachment to the front bumper of a vehicle that shields and protects the vehicle from plant life when driven off road.
A supplemental device designed to protect a vehicles frame and or body from collision damage.
Vehicle device that protects a vehicle frame or body from collision damage.
Halogen lamps and or light emitting diodes located in a vehicles headliner that illuminate a vehicles interior space in its entirety.
Light emitting diodes in the vehicle headliner that illuminate the interior space of the vehicle.
A description of the number of hydraulic pistons used in a vehicles brake caliper and their arrangement in relation to each other.
In a vehicle brake caliper, the number of hydraulic pistons and their correlation to each other.
The type of brake caliper monoblock, sliding or dual sliding.
Capital reduction. in a vehicle lease, any trade in amount, cash down payment or rebate amount that reduces the cost of the vehicle being leased its  capitalized cost.
Often called the cap cost.  the negotiated price of a vehicle to be leased, and one of the components used to determine the monthly lease payment.
Negotiated price of a vehicle being leased or traded in. one of the metrics used to determine the monthly vehicle payment.
An automobile lender that is a subsidiary of an automobile manufacturer and whose principal business includes financing the sales and or leases of that manufacturers vehicles.
Company who finances the sale or lease of manufacturer vehicles and operates as a subsidiary of an automobile manufacturer.
A measure of a vehicles total consumption of natural resources weighed against the earth's ability to regenerate those resources.
The total consumption of natural sources weighed against their global availability and sustainability.
A device used on older internal combustion gasoline engines that is mounted on the engines intake manifold and supplies fuel to the engine.
In older internal combustion gasoline engines, a device mounted on the intake manifold and balances the mixture of fuel and air to the engine.
Built in amenities that serve a specific purpose in the cargo areas of a vehicle.
The type of cargo door liftgate, vertical split hinge or horizontal split hinge.
A vehicle that is well adapted for hauling cargo.
Type of vehicle suited for hauling cargo.
Hooks, straps or eyelets that function as anchors for cargo nets and ropes used to secure objects.
Rebates provided by the manufacturer directly to the customer at the time the vehicle is purchased to lower the final price of the vehicle. consumers usually may elect to either receive this amount in cash or to credit the rebate as part of the vehicles down payment.
Purchase rebates from the manufacturer to lower the price of the vehicle. consumers can elect cash or value as part of the vehicle down payment.
A canister in the exhaust system, usually situated before the muffler, containing a substance that reacts chemically with the exhaust in order to reduce harmful emissions.
Usually situated before the muffler, the canister in the exhaust system that contains a substance that reacts chemically with the exhaust. its purpose is to reduce harmful emissions.
A metal panel, which may be insulated, that is used to prevent the catalytic converter heat from harming surrounding areas.
A metal panel that prevents the converter heat from harming the body of the converter.
Crankcase ventilation filter.
Wood, composite, leather or metal adornments intended to supplement the aesthetic elements of a vehicle's center console.
Aesthetic elements in the center console. may consist of wood, composite, or leather components.
A hypothetical point at which all of the mass of an object acts as if it were concentrated. for a vehicle, the lower the center of gravity the less likely the vehicle will be to roll over when it is destabilized.
An object's center of mass. for a vehicle, the lower the center of gravity, the less  top heavy  it is, and the less likely it is to roll over when it is destabilized.
A geographic area usually identified by the states of which it consists in which a specific vehicle is certified by the environmental protection agency to be sold to the public.
As certified by the environmental protection agency, a state or region where the vehicle may be sold.
A used vehicle offered for sale by a franchised dealer for that vehicle make and who follows the manufacturers requirements for certifying  the vehicle including inspection and service and which, upon sale, is accompanied by a manufacturer backed warranty.
A vehicle that has been certified by a manufacturer backed warranty, and may have been previously owned for a short period of time. the certification process is optional by the part of the dealer and may include inspection and service.
A device that captures raw fuel vapors hydrocarbons from the vehicles fuel tank and carburetor bowl before they can escape into the air
This device captures hydrocarbons from the fuel tank and carburetor bowl before they are expunged.
An additional seat and harness specifically designed for the safety of small children and designed to work with a vehicles built in restraint system.
A safety seat designed to protect small children under a certain height and weight in the event of a vehicle collision. child safety seats provide a harness and restraints to keep the children stationery during a crash.
Built in attachment points that accept child safety seats built to international standard for child car seat fittings international standards, commonly referred to in the united states of america as the lower anchors and tethers for children system.
Hooks in the seat or other attachment locators used to attach a child safety seat into the vehicle.
The options to disable a vehicles windows, door locks and or passenger airbag in order to prevent injury to children.
Features such as window and door locks that prevent a child from injuring themselves or injury by other means.
On a carbureted engine, the assembly of parts that controls a valve that limits incoming cold air until the engine reaches operating temperature and is able to more efficiently vaporize fuel.
The connection between the choke switch and choke. 
The average number of miles a vehicle is able to travel using one gallon of fuel according to environmental protection agency simulated laboratory tests of city driving conditions.
Miles, by number, that a car can reasonably drive within the city using one gallon of fuel. the environmental protection agency provides this number based on simulations of city driving.
The computer controlled regulation of heating and air conditioning systems to accommodate a user specified temperature setting.
Regulation of heating and air conditioning as specified by the user. this is a computer controlled system usually accessed from the center dash.
Air filter for air conditioned seats.
For air conditioned seats, this filter removes particulates and contaminants for the air being pumped through the seat.
Seats that have internal heating and cooling mechanisms.
Passenger seats with heating or air conditioning features.
The parts of the mechanical connection between the clutch and clutch pedal in a non hydraulic clutch system.
In a non hydraulic clutch system, the connection between the clutch and clutch pedal.
The liquid used in a hydraulic clutch system that helps disengage the clutch from the flywheel.
In a hydraulic clutch system, this fluid provides pressure to the system.
The pivot point for the clutch fork in the clutch housing of a manual transmission.
In a hydraulically actuated clutch, the tubes that carry fluid between the clutch master cylinder and the slave cylinder
In a manual transmission vehicle with a hydraulically actuated clutch, a small bore hydraulic cylinder mechanically connected to the clutch pedal that actuates a slave cylinder, which in turn actuates the clutch fork that disengages the clutch when the clutch pedal is depressed.
A cylinder that is mechanically connected to the clutch pedal. in a manual transmission, this cylinder actuates a slave cylinder and clutch fork to disengage the clutch when the pedal is depressed.
A pedal located on the floor of the vehicle to the left of the brake pedal that, when depressed, disengages the clutch from the flywheel.
A type of vehicle insurance to cover collision damage, particularly with another vehicle involved.
A steering column that collapses in the event of a hard frontal impact to reduce the risk of injury to the driver.
Vehicle insurance that cover damage caused by a collision with another vehicle or object.
The average number of miles a vehicle is able to travel using one gallon of fuel according to environmental protection agency simulated laboratory tests that consist of fifty five percent highway and forty five percent city driving conditions.
Using one gallon of fuel, this is the number of miles a vehicle is able to drive. these numbers are devised by the environmental protection agency during laboratory tests, which consist of a mixture of highway and city driving conditions.
A digital or analog display that indicates the direction a vehicle is facing.
A display in the dashboard that shows the direction a vehicle is facing.
Vehicle insurance that cover damage other than that caused by a collision with another vehicle or object.
A type of vehicle insurance that covers damage beyond collision damage.
The ratio of one the volume of a vehicles engine cylinder with its piston at bottom dead center to, two the volume of the same cylinder with its piston at top dead center.
Ratio of the volume of a piston when at bottom dead center to the volume of the same piston when at top dead center.
A storage area located in a vehicles dash or headliner, between seats or underneath the seats.
The compartment in the dashboard which provides storage, among other things.
The type of convertible roof tops, including soft tops, hard tops, t tops, targa style tops, and tops that are manual or power operated.
Also known as an  aeroboard.  an on a convertible vehicle, the glass or plastic shield that prevents reversion of high velocity air as it passes over the low pressure, low velocity air in the passenger compartment.
The shield on a convertible that prevents reversion of high velocity air when passed over low pressure, low velocity air in the passenger area. also known as an aeroboard.
Also known as  antifreeze.  a mixture of water and ethylene glycol that has both a higher boiling point and a lower freezing point than plain water.
Water and ethylene glycol mixed together. commonly known as antifreeze, this mixture has a higher boiling point and a lower freezing point than water
Seats that can direct air from the air conditioning system through tiny holes in the center section of the seat bottom.
Similar to heated seats, these seats utilize the interior air conditioning system to push cool air through holes in the seat.
A mechanically, hydraulically or electrically driven fan that pulls cooling air through a vehicle's radiator, the shroud forms a direct passage between the radiator and fan, improving the fans effectiveness.
A fan that moves cooling air through the radiator. the shroud creates a corridor between the radiator and the fan. when depressed, this pedal disengages the clutch from the flywheel. it is located near the floor next to the other pedals in a vehicle with a manual transmission.
A feature of some antilock brake systems that proportions and applies brake force in order to prevent oversteer.
A pair of white driving lights located at the two front corners of a vehicle designed to aid during cornering.
Certified pre owned vehicle.
A ventilation system or device that allows excessive crankcase pressure to escape.
A system used for releasing excessive pressure from the crankcase.
A valve that prevents excess pressure from building in the crankcase which could lead to oil leakage past the seals.
In the crankcase, the valve regulates excessive pressure to prevent oil leakage.
Also known as the  composite concept vehicle.  a filter that prevents foreign particles from entering the crankcase.
Also known as the  composite concept vehicle.  this type of filter in the crankcase prevents foreign particulates.
Ratings that represent a vehicles performance in various crash tests, published by the organizations that conduct such tests.
In various crash tests, this rating illustrates how a vehicle performed.
A device that, when engaged by the driver, automatically controls a vehicle's speed.
A system used to control the speed of the vehicle while on the highway. this allows drivers to maintain a steady speed without having to modulate the throttle.
A section of a vehicles structure that collapses during impact to absorb energy.
The portion of the structure of a vehicle that absorbs energy during collision impact.
The total weight of a vehicle, including a full tank of fuel, all fluids and standard equipment, but without any cargo or passengers.
Weight of an entire vehicle at standing without any cargo or passengers.
Also known as head airbags.  wide spanning airbags that when deployed cover the side glass in a side impact or, in some applications, a rollover, to keep occupants' heads and limbs fully inside the vehicle.
In the event of a side collision or rollover, these airbags are deployed to keep occupants' heads and limbs inside the vehicle.
A cash payment made by the manufacturer of a vehicle to a customer to incentivize its purchase.
When a manufacturer offers cash payments to help entice the customer to purchase a vehicle.
Constant velocity joints, which are located on either end of the drive axles and transmit engine power while enabling full steering and suspension movement. black accordion boots cover and protect these joints and hold lubricant.
Constant velocity joints. these are joints that, while enabling full steering and suspension movement, cap the drive axles on both ends and send engine power. they are protected by black accordion coverings that also hold fluid.
A transmission with a continuously variable drive ratio as opposed to conventionally stepped gear ratios that maintains a steady acceleration curve with no pauses for gear changes.
Unlike stepped gear ratios, this transmission has a variable drive ratio. its acceleration is steady and there are no intermittent pauses during a gear change.
The arrangement of an engines cylinders.
The way in which cylinders are arranged in the engine.
A feature of some engines that allows the engine to turn off two or more cylinders in order to maximize fuel efficiency.
In some engines, certain cylinders can be shut off to maximize fuel efficiency.
Bolts that clamp an engines cylinder heads to the engine block.
Amounts that are paid to dealers by manufacturers to stimulate vehicle sales by incentivizing the dealers to lower their prices to consumers, typically paid or earned upon the dealers purchase of the vehicle from the manufacturer, upon the dealers sale of the vehicle, or when the dealer achieve specified sales volume targets.
When a manufacturer offers cash payments to help the dealer cover the costs of selling the vehicle. usually paid at the time of sale.
A system of devices, including a heart rate sensor, that applies braking when the drivers heart stops beating.
A system that automatically cuts the fuel supply when coasting or braking in order to achieve better fuel efficiency and more effective engine braking, and resumes fuel supply when acceleration is once again needed.
An emissions device on a manually shifted vehicle that bleeds vacuum from the intake when the vehicle is in gear with the throttle closed. this causes the fuel injectors to close during conditions of deceleration and results in reduced emissions.
On manual shift vehicles, an emissions device that emits vacuum from the intake when the vehicle is in gear. fuel injectors will close when decelerated and emit fewer emissions
The act of disengaging a vehicles transmission from its driveshaft, either manually or automatically, when its driveshafts revolutions per minute exceeds the transmissions revolutions per minute
The act of disengaging a vehicle's transmission from its driveshaft, either manually or automatically. this puts the vehicle in neutral, so while the engine may be running, the vehicle is coasting.
One, a test drive, two, a vehicle that has been used as a demonstration model by a dealership.
Vehicle used for test drive purposes by a dealership. may also refer to the test drive itself.
The amount by which a vehicle or any physical item loses its value over time. in vehicle lease transactions, the projected depreciation of the vehicle is used to determine the vehicles projected residual value and the monthly lease payments.
The loss of value incurred by a vehicle over time. this amount can be used to determine monthly payment value when leasing a vehicle.
An off road version of cruise control that uses the anti lock braking system and traction control systems to independently manipulate a vehicle's four brakes, which allows the driver to descend steep and uneven terrain at a walking speed more effectively than the driver can by using a brake pedal that controls all four brakes at once.
Using anti lock braking system and traction control systems, this off road version of cruise control manipulates the four brakes. this allows the driver to descend down steep inclines or uneven terrain.
The fee that the manufacturer charges to deliver a vehicle from the factory to the dealership, and that is passed on by the dealer to the consumer, it is not included in the manufacturer's suggested retail price of the vehicle. the destination fee is the same for a particular vehicle no matter where the dealership is located with the exception of alaska and hawaii in some instances.
Shipping fee for delivering a vehicle from a manufacturer to a dealership. it is passed on from the dealer to the consumer, but not a factor in the manufacturers suggested retail price of the vehicle. the destination charge is based on the vehicle itself rather than the dealership location.
A vehicle with an engine that uses diesel fuel and compression ignition.
A type of engine that uses diesel fuel. in a diesel engine, the fuel air mixture is ignited primarily due to the compression in the cylinders.
A digital or analog display that shows the amount of time in total hours that a diesel vehicles engine has run over its lifetime.
Over its lifetime, the amount of time a diesel engine has run. this can be a digital or analog output.
A fluid that is injected into diesel exhaust after it exits the engine and before it enters a catalytic converter.
The liquid used for lubricating gears inside the differential.
A fuel injection system in which the injection nozzles are located inside the combustion chamber of each piston.
Also referred to as  direct shift gearbox,  sequential manual gearbox  and  automated manual transmission. automated manual transmission.
The type of brake rotors solid, vented, slotted, cross drilled, ceramic or carbon.
An in dash or remote mounted compact discs or digital video disc or compact discs player that can store and read multiple discs and play them through the vehicle's audio system.
The volume, in cubic centimeters, of a vehicles engine cylinder with its piston at bottom dead center, multiplied by the total number of cylinders in the vehicles engine.
An amount charged by the leasing company at the end of a lease that is intended to cover the cost of retrieving and selling the vehicle if the lessee chooses not to buy it. the lessee is billed for this charge after the vehicle is returned.
The nonconductive cap of the distributor that contains the contacts leading to each individual spark plug.
The rotating, non conductive component of a distributor that contains contacts and that, when aligned, complete an electrical circuit between the ignition coil and a spark plug.
On an engine equipped with an air pump, a valve activated during deceleration that allows air from the air pump into the intake to dilute the air or fuel mixture in an attempt to reduce emissions.
Department of motor vehicle fees. sometimes referred to as  title and license fees.  the fees payable to the state in which a vehicle is purchased and or registered, primarily for vehicle titling, registration and license plates.
Title and license fees as required to register with a state's motor vehicle agency.
A cash payment credited against the purchase price of a vehicle, which reduces the amount to be financed. in a lease transaction, this amount is often referred to as the  capital reduction. 
Cash against the vehicle at the time of signing. this payment reduces the amount of the vehicle needing financing.
A transmission cable connected to the throttle that shifts the transmission into a lower gear when the accelerator is depressed suddenly beyond a certain point.
A composition or plastic sealing washer used on a bolt type drain plug.
The flexible, conical, accordion like covers that contain lubricant and protect the constant velocity joints on a drive axle shaft.
Bendable covers that contain lubricant and cover the constant velocity joints on a drive axle shaft.
A self adjusting device used for maintaining proper tension on the drive belt.
A belt that transfers the rotation of the engine through the crankshaft pulley to drive various devices, such as the alternator, water pump, air conditioning compressor or power steering pump.
A sturdy metal tube with universal joints on either end that connects the engine to a differential on a rear wheel or four wheel drive vehicle.
The type of drive system two wheel drive, four wheel drive or all wheel drive
The part of the engine that creates vehicular movement. this system controls speed, torque, and direction of the engine.
Flexible, energy absorbing components that attach parts of a vehicle's drive train for example, the transmission, transfer case or differential housing to the chassis.
Also referred to as total due at signing.  the total cost that must be paid by the lessee at the inception of a vehicle lease, which typically includes the first months lease payment, any security deposit required by the leasing company, any acquisition fee charged by the leasing company, any documentation fees charged by the dealer, and various state registration fees.
A device that monitors a drivers eye movement and or vital signs while a vehicle is in motion.
Powertrain warranty.
A warranty that specifically addresses the components of the drivetrain, including the transmission, driveshalf, and differential. 
Auxiliary high beam driving lamps.
Direct shift gearbox. also referred to as sequential manual gearbox  and automated manual transmission. automated manual transmission. 
A hybrid vehicle with two different drive systems, referred to as modes. in the first mode the vehicles runs solely on an electric motor powered by the vehicles battery system. when the electric only mode is low on power, or during harder acceleration and faster speeds, a gasoline engine mode will initiate. the second mode uses a gasoline engine to help power the vehicle and recharge the electrical system batteries.
Modal hybrid vehicle with two different drive systems. the vehicle runs solely on electric motor power in the battery system in the first mode. the vehicle runs on gasoline fuel to help the electric motor recharge in the second mode.
A feature that, when activated, automatically turns on the headlights and taillights when the ambient light dims at sunset.
Emergency brake assist.
A fuel consisting of gasoline or another hydrocarbon mixed with up to eight five percent denatured ethanol.
Type of fuel that is a mixture of up to fifteen percent ethanol and up to eighty five percent denatured ethanol.
Ending a vehicle lease before its original term has expired.
When a consumer returns a leased vehicle before the original term has expired.
A device that automatically retracts a vehicles power seats and or steering column when the engine is switched off.
System to retract power seats or the steering column when the engine is shut off.
Exhaust gas recirculation system. a device that redirects a small amount of exhaust to the engine intake in an effort to lower combustion temperature and reduce the emission of nitrogen oxide.
The type of battery used to power the electric motor in a hybrid or electric vehicle, lead acid, flooded, gel, lithium ion, absorbed glass mat, zebra sodium or nickel chloride or nickel zinc traction.
An electric vehicles or hybrid vehicles electric motors ability to do work, expressed in terms of horsepower, torque or kilowatts.
The type of electric motor in a hybrid or electric vehicle used to power the drive wheels, permanent magnet motor or other traction motor.
A vehicle that is run entirely on electricity, using batteries, capacitors and one or more traction drive systems.
A rearview mirror that automatically dims at night when it detects a bright glare.
Stability control.
An electronically controlled system that maximizes brake efficiency during panic stops.
A system that uses the adaptive cruise control sensors to monitor the following distance to the car ahead, if the gap is closing sufficiently quickly, in anticipation of a panic stop the system will cause the anti lock braking system pump to pre fill the brakes and will bring the brake pads close to the rotors.
A glow in the dark pull handle inside a car's trunk that permits escape for someone trapped inside.
Numerical limits on the pollutants produced by a vehicle established by the environmental protection agency and the california air resource board.
Hoses and tubes utilized by any of a vehicles emission control devices.
A score from zero to ten given by the environmental protection agency to each new vehicle that represents the amount of total emissions produced during a laboratory driving simulation of the vehicle.
The maximum allowable levels of nitric oxide, carbon monoxide, nonmethane organic compounds and particulate matter permitted by environmental protection agency  regulations to be emitted by each new vehicle.
A system that automatically shuts the engine off when a vehicle comes to rest for a period, and then restarts it automatically when the brake is released and the throttle is depressed.
A special notation attached to a vehicles engine code in order to describe its emissions rating or its fuel economy, or that indicates that it can be run on multiple fuel sources.
A device that records the number of hours an engine has run over its lifetime.
A substance that lubricates and cools the moving parts of the engine and reduces corrosion and the formation of rust.
A device that automatically brings a low engine oil level to the attention of a driver.
An engines ability to do work in terms of horsepower, torque or efficiency.
A vehicle engines displacement, in liters according to its manufacturer.
A device that senses the temperature of the engine coolant for the purpose of regulating the engine cooling system.
A system of lights that aids a driver or passenger in entering a vehicle in the dark.
An assessment of the biophysical effects a vehicle has on the environment, commencing with its production and ending with its disposal.
The city and highway fuel economy ratings issued by the environmental protection agency.
The amount of total space within the cabin of a vehicle as measured by the environmental protection agency.
Laboratory tests of new vehicles conducted by the environmental protection agency in controlled driving simulations, for the purpose of generating data on average fuel economy, air pollution and greenhouse gas production.
For a vehicle that has been financed through a loan, the difference at any time between what a vehicle is worth at that time and the amount that is then owed on the loan.
The estimated cost of fueling a vehicle over the course of a year, assuming fifteen thousand miles per year are driven and a price per gallon designated by the environmental protection agency.
Ethyl alcohol. a commonly used vehicle fuel.
Electric vehicle.
The average distance an electric vehicle is able to travel on a full charge, as measured by the environmental protection agency and listed on the vehicle's window sticker.
A device that captures raw fuel vapors hydrocarbons from a vehicles fuel tank and carburetor bowl before they can escape into the air.
A filter on the evaporative control canister that filters incoming air as fuel vapors contained in the canister are being drawn back into the engine.
An emission control system that prevents raw fuel vapors from entering the atmosphere.
A fee the lessee must pay when the allotted miles specified in the lease are exceeded. the fee is customarily zero point one two to zero point two five dollars per mile in excess of the allotted miles.
Wear or damage to a vehicle that is in excess of what is normally expected in the ordinary course of operating a leased vehicle.
A device that directs warm exhaust to a vehicles intake in an effort to aid fuel vaporization and reduce warm up time.
A vehicle warranty sold by the manufacturer of the vehicle or a third party that extends the vehicles basic warranty beyond its original period.
A video camera mounted outside a vehicle that relays its signal to a monitor within the cabin.
The type of position adjustment control for the exterior mirrors, power, memory or manual.
The digital display of the ambient air temperature around a vehicle.
Vehicle equipment that is installed by the manufacturer in contrast to equipment that may be installed by the dealer or the owner.
A  factory tuner  is a vehicle model that has significant engine and or chassis upgrades as compared its parent model. it is built at the factory and typically has a name that includes a  factory tuner  designation example mercedes benz  aufrecht melcher groaspach  or bayerische motoren werke  motorsport. examples include the bayerische motoren werke motorsport three.
The mechanical connection between the radiator fan and its point of attachment.
Front engine front wheel drive. a vehicle that is propelled solely by its front wheels and whose engine is located forward of its front axle.
An engine that can be run on more than one type of fuel for example, e eighty five and gasoline.
A vehicle than can run on at least two different fuel sources either simultaneously through a single fuel system or separately through multiple fuel systems.
A pair of driving lights that provides a wide, low beam in an attempt to undercut fog.
The forced compression of air into an engines cylinders by means of a supercharger or turbocharger
A drivetrain that employs two differentials and a transfer case to provide power to all four wheels of a vehicle.
A feature of some vehicles that allows the rear wheels to be steered by a computer and actuators, for the purpose of increasing high speed cornering stability.
Front engine rear wheel drive. a vehicle that is propelled solely by its rear wheels and whose engine is located forward of its front axle.
The dimensions of the major components of a vehicles front brake rotors, and the type of brake ventilation employed.
A vehicle with an engine that is forward of its passenger compartment but aft of its front axle.
The type of front seating, bucket seats, sport seats, split bench seats or captains chairs.
The amount of fuel that a vehicles fuel tank can hold.
A vehicle that utilizes fuel cells to create electricity through a chemical process using oxygen from the air and hydrogen.
The rate at which an engine depletes its fuel supply.
A measure of the amount of fuel used by a vehicle over a certain distance, or the distance traveled per volume of fuel used
How far a vehicle can travel using a given amount of gasoline. commonly described in miles per gallon and measured for city and highway driving.
A cap used to seal a vehicles fuel filler neck.
A replaceable metal or plastic canister that prevents particulate matter and most contaminants in the fuel from reaching the engine.
A device that atomizes fuel by forcibly pumping it through a small nozzle under high pressure and delivers it to the vehicles engine.
The tubing and connections that carry fuel through a vehicle.
For diesel fuel engines, the device that filters the fuel immediately before it enters the fuel pump.
A device that automatically shuts off a vehicles fuel pump after a collision.
The assemblage of parts that stores and delivers fuel for the engine, including the fuel cap, fuel tank, fuel lines and hoses, fuel pump, fuel filter and fuel injectors or carburetor.
The type of fuel used to power a vehicle, gasoline, ethanol, e eighty five, diesel, biodiesel, natural gas or electricity.
A device that separates the water from the fuel in addition to, or as part of, the fuel filtering system.
Empty
Zero emission vehicle. the most restrictive emissions standard.
Empty
Empty
Active torque transfer system is a small automatic gearbox unit mated to the differential of the car. the unit sends torque to the wheel that needs power the most to optimize traction.
Fees that detail the paperwork handling at a dealership when purchasing or leasing a car.
A type of braking system which will automatically  pump  the brakes to prevent skidding and loss of control. mandatory on all vehicles sold in the united states since twenty thirteen. 
Before negotiations, the price for a vehicle asked by the dealer or other seller.
A professional certification group for automotive mechanics. to receive automotive service excellence certification, individuals have to pass exams, and demonstrate relevant work experience.
A mistimed explosion in the engine cylinder or exhaust.
Joints in the steering linkage and suspension system that allow a rotating movement in any direction between the joined parts.
The capitalized cost of a vehicle being leased in a trade in.
A byproduct of the combustion of fossil fuels. it consists of two oxygen atoms and one single carbon atom. one of the so called  greenhouse gases  and naturally occurring.
One of the so called  greenhouse gases . a byproduct of the combustion of fossil fuels. it consists of one oxygen atom and single carbon atom.
The framework or other wheeled conveyance in the undercarriage of a vehicle.
The chassis includes the mechanical parts of a car that are attached to the structural frame.
Used on older carbureted vehicles to manually adjust the fuel air mixture and promote easy starting.
A registration class of vehicle size between midsize and subcompact cars.
A convertible car can be driven with the roof retracted. sometimes called a roadster, spyder, or cabriolet.
This vehicle is a type of sports utility vehicle that features a unibody style. similar to a standard passenger car, in that this type often presents better interior comfort and fuel economy than the sport utility vehicle.
In an engine, this is the chamber where gasoline is burned and turned into power. most cars have four or six cylinders.
The control panel that is located directly in front of the steering wheel. often called dash or instrument panel, this displays the various controls of the vehicle.
When the vehicle is sold, the manufacturer may pay the dealer a percentage of the manufacturers suggested retail price.
The calculated distance an electric vehicle, in particular, can travel based on fuel that remains in the tank. this is calculated by fuel level, throttle, and brake application. this range may also include other driving conditions.
Components that attach parts of a drivetrain to the chassis. this may include the transmission, transfer case, or differential housing.
A traditional car engine converts fuel  into motion in order to move the drivetrain of the vehicle. there are several types of car engines, including gas, diesel, hydrogen, and hybrid.
Not including the volume of the combustion chambers, this is the volume of all the pistons when swept inside the cylinders of a piston engine.
Previously measured in cubic inches and now designated in liters, displacement describes the volume of combustion in the engines interior.
A system which corrects any derivation from a predetermined ideal air fuel mixture. the air fuel ratio feedback control system is comprised of first means for detecting air fuel ratio of air fuel mixture to be inducted into the engine in accordance with a component of exhaust gas discharged from the engine.
A type of short term loan used by dealerships to purchase high cost inventory. also called retail floor planning or inventory financing.
Often abbreviated as four wheel drive. a type of drivetrain that provides torque to all four wheels of the vehicle simultaneously, as opposed to only the front or rear.
A type of vehicle class from the united states and is used to describe cars that are larger than mid size cars. this is the largest class size of vehicle and the equivalent of european categories such as executive car.
Empty
In the steering geometry, this system has a scrub radius of zero. the configuration minimizes the steering effects during acceleration or braking
Empty
Empty
The american auto racing association, located in spokane, washington.
American drag racing association, located in spokane, washington.
American hot rod association.
Atlanta motor speedway.
Automobile racing club of america, the little brother to the winston cup racing automobile racing club of america is two levels below. automobile racing club of america sports similar cars with shorter races and small payouts.
A document that states a person or a legal entity has the right of ownership.
An unforeseen and unintended event or occurrence.
Removes moisture from the liquid refrigerant in an air conditioning system.
A device that performs a mechanical action in response to an input signal, which may be electrical or fluidic.
The average listed price for a given year, make and model combination, among the cars currently listed on autotrader dot com.
The highest listed price for a given year, make and model combination, among the cars currently listed on autotrader dot com.
The lowest listed price for a given year, make and model combination, among the cars currently listed on autotrader.com.
The wind resistance of a vehicle's design elements. aerodynamic vehicles claim to offer increased performance and reduced wind noise while moving. see coefficient of drag
Brakes, usually on heavy duty trucks, that use compressed air to operate.
A device allowing the driver to turn off the front passenger airbag.
The proper adjustment of the car's suspension. generally refers to the wheel alignment.
Tires designed to provide good traction in winter snow and slush without wearing too quickly on dry roads.
A small, lightweight vehicle designed for recreational off highway use.
Any non steel road wheel. mostly aluminum, but technically a mixture of two or more metals.
May be alcohol based, such as ethanol or methanol, compressed natural gas, or combinations of gasoline and alcohol.
Produces alternating current and recharges the battery.
Several dealership operations located on one site.
Standard on nineteen ninety five and later models, this device is built into the shoulder belt retractor and keeps the belt cinched tightly, which is essential for properly securing a child safety seat.
Automatically controls a vehicle's heating and cooling systems, maintaining a temperature preset by the occupant
A coat of paint acting as the base for other layers to be applied.
A car for everyday transportation. usually not in perfect condition.
Full length seat that can usually seat two or three people.
The type of exterior shell or shape to a vehicle, sedan, coupe, truck.
This child safety seat is designed for children who are too large for a baby seat, but not big enough to sit safely in the vehicle's seats.
Victory in the indianapolis five hundred secures this, the most coveted trophy in indy car racing.
The cylinders are opposite one eighty degrees apart from each other. also called flat engines, these are relatively flat compared to in line or v engines.
The large circular surface that the brake shoe presses against to stop the vehicle.
Occurs when the vehicle pulls suddenly to the left or right as the brake pedal is depressed. it indicates the brakes may be out of adjustment.
A curved, replaceable piece of friction material used on drum brakes. the wheel cylinder pushes the brake shoes against the brake drum.
A person who represents the insured to solicit or negotiate for contracts. a broker may deal with many agents or companies on behalf of his or her client.
Individual driver or passenger seats.
A type of warranty that covers the entire vehicle for a limited amount of time.
Just one level below winston cup, some drivers race at both this and winston cup level. these races, often run the day before a winston cup race, have gained popularity and are now all televised live, nationally.
The championship association of mechanics, established in nineteen eighty nine, is a non profit organization that serves the needs of indy car crew members. it also acts to publicize their efforts.
Charlotte motor speedway, home of the world six hundred winston cup race, now known as the coca cola six hundred. this is a national association for stock car auto racing event, also held on memorial day.
Inward or outward tilt of the wheels and tires. this adjustment affects how the vehicle holds the road and handles cornering.
A financial institution owned by a manufacturer. examples include chrysler credit, ford motor credit and general motors acceptance corporation.
The insurance company that provides the insurance.
Insurance covering the insured's legal liability for damage to other person's property or injuries to them. other forms of insurance, such as burglary, robbery and worker's compensation, belong in this category.
The risk of loss by a peril to which a large number of insured are subject. typical examples are hurricanes and tornadoes.
National highway traffic safety administration required brake light mounted higher than the taillights, at the top center or bottom center of the rear windshield.
On all wheel drive vehicles, a third differential in addition to those for the front and rear axles. this third differential allows the front and rear wheels to turn at different speeds as needed for cornering on dry pavement. on slippery surfaces, it locks all four wheels together, either automatically or manually depending on the system, for greater traction.
On a vehicle with power door locks, the system locks or unlocks all doors at one time.
Chemicals formerly used as refrigerants in cooling systems. no longer used because they are considered harmful to the earth's ozone layer.
The pole of lights that starts a drag race, named for its red and green lights. most drag races use the pro or heads up start which has three lights in between the first red and last green stage.
Request for payment of a loss as covered under the terms of an insurance contract.
The term used to identify a certain section of the contract or policy.
The transparent top coat of paint on many newer vehicles, designed to create a long lasting, lustrous appearance
In a lease contract, specifies the vehicle's residual value at the end of the lease term. the lessee is not responsible for the value of the vehicle at term end, but he may face charges for excess wear and tear and excessive mileage. also called a walk away lease.
Any expenses added onto the lease that are incidental to the purchase. for example, title fees and appraisal fees.
Device that connects or disconnects the engine from the transmission.
Presses against the the transmission flywheel to transfer power from the engine to the transmission
A measure of the aerodynamic resistance of the vehicle body. the smaller the number, the more wind cheating the body design and the greater likelihood that passengers would not have to endure wind noises.
Top section of the engine cylinder, where the air fuel mixture is ignited by a spark plug. the explosion of the combustion pushes the piston down into the cylinder, producing the force that the transmission delivers to the drive wheel
On front wheel drive and all wheel drive vehicles, a coupling that allows the front axle to turn at a constant speed at various angles when the vehicle turns. the constant velocity joint is a shaft that transmits engine power from the transmission to the wheel.
The government tracks the average fuel economy of all the vehicles produced in a single model year by each individual manufacturer. corporate average fuel economy is that rating.
A coupe with an enclosed, rear passenger section and an open driver's section.
These national association for stock car auto racing trucks are similar to a winston cup race car, under the skin. the body must be stock and its shape is monitored by national association for stock car auto racing officials. this new series of races has been called one of the most exciting in motorsports.
The main part of the engine to which other parts are attached.
A device that reduces vibration.
These lights come on whenever the vehicle is turned on, they make the vehicle more visible to other drivers. mandatory in canada and standard equipment on many vehicles sold in the united states.
Any extra charges for additional services or products sold by the dealer such as rust proofing or extended warranties.
A limited time discount offered by the manufacturer to a dealership.
A cash refund or attractive lease or loan rate offered by an automotive manufacturer toward the sale or purchase of a new vehicle.
Also called dealer cost. the amount the dealer pays for a car or truck. deducted from this price may be a dealer incentive, which is a set discount offered for a limited period of time, or a dealer holdback, which is a percentage of the vehicle's wholesale price.
Extra charges for getting the car ready.
The base price, or the price on the monroney sticker, plus the suggested retail price of dealer installed options, dealer preparation, and add ons such as undercoating.
The amount of money or percentage of expenses that will be covered by the insured.
Fees charged the lessee as a result of missing payments or otherwise defaulting on the lease. typical charges include all remaining payments and any additional costs incurred in reclaiming the vehicle. the security deposit may also be lost.
A sum of money to hold a deal until the paperwork is complete. if the deal is closed, the deposit is applied to the down payment.
The fuel used by a diesel engine. usually found in tractor trailers and other trucks.
A small dent or scrape in the body of the vehicle.
Arranging the loan directly through a bank or credit union rather than through the dealer.
Damage or loss directly due to a particular event or peril.
Also called disposition fees. charge for costs associated with picking up and processing the returned car at the end of the lease. this runs from two hundred to four hundred dollars. sometimes rolled into monthly payments. often absorbed by dealers when another vehicle is leased.
Part of the ignition electrical system. delivers electricity from the ignition coil to the distributor cap and the spark plug wires in the correct firing order. the firing order is that sequence in which each cylinder begins its power stroke. the spark plugs ignite the fuel and air mixture in each cylinder thousands of times a minute, producing the explosion that pushes the piston down in the cylinder to power the vehicle.
A type of independent suspension in which the upper and lower support pieces, or members, look somewhat like a wishbone.
A phenomena where two cars running nose to tail together can move faster than an individual vehicle.
Connects the transaxle to the front wheels on a front wheel drive vehicle.
The wheels, front, rear, or both, to which the engine transmits its power.
Additional fee charged when a lease is ended before the agreed upon term. often represents a substantial penalty.
The portion of the premium which is already paid from an expired policy term.
The computer that controls the engine's fuel and emissions systems. among the devices it controls is the idle air control which regulates the idle speed in fuel injected engines. also called the electronic control unit.
Injects fuel into the engine's cylinders with electronic control to time and meter the fuel flow.
System in which a computer controls the timing of the opening and closing of cylinder valves.
In an open end lease, the amount the lessee pays at the end of the lease, the difference between the vehicle's residual value, which was used to calculate lease payments, and the actual market value.
The federal agency that regulates air quality and sets automotive fuel economy and emissions standards.
A process in which a neutral third party takes care of the transfer of ownership of the vehicle.
Evaporated fuel from the carburetor or fuel system which mixes with the surrounding outside air.
Part of the climate control system that contains a liquid refrigerant which turns to gas to absorb heat from the air.
Any mileage over the amount agreed upon within the lease. generally incurs a per mileage charge at the end of the lease. experts recommend a yearly mileage limit, or mileage cap, that exceeds normal driving needs.
Any cause, condition, or property which are not covered by the policy.
A policy that covers any extras that are not in the original policy.
Federation internationale de l'automobile
The standard and options that make up the equipment of a used vehicle.
Transmits power from a crankshaft driven pulley to an engine fan and other accessories.
Provides a flexible connection between the tractor and the trailer.
The reduction ratio of the transmission gear set furthest from the engine. in other words, the ratio of the number of rotations of the drive shaft for one rotation of a wheel. in general, a low final drive ratio results in better fuel efficiency, and higher final drive ratio results in better performance.
The metal panel that separates the engine compartment from the passenger compartment. it also often includes sound and heat insulation.
The compensation for loss or damage from your insurance company rather than the person involved in the accident.
A cancellation of a policy free of any charge or fee.
A rate that is not subject to any additions or adjustments.
The most popular of all the forms of auto racing, formula one tends to be dominated by european drivers. the parallels to indy car racing have lead to the defections of drivers like nigel mansell, who seek the greater spoils of victory here in the united states.
A four speed manual transmission.
Engine power is transmitted to the front wheels, which are the drive wheels. also front drive.
Taking the place of carburetors in the nineteen eighties, the fuel injector is an electrically controlled valve that delivers a precise amount of pressurized fuel into each combustion chamber.
A mechanical or electrical pump that pressurizes the fuel system to move gas from the fuel tank to the engine.
This variation of a dragster hides the usual front engine chassis under a lightweight body that looks like a street car.
An electrical device that breaks the current in a circuit that is overloaded or shorted, it prevents damage to other components. however, the fuse itself may fail, and the most common repair when a fuse blows is to simply replace it without working on any other electrical component.
Empty
Empty
A variety of safety related systems that monitor vehicle performance and the surrounding environment. advanced driver assistance systems provide a variety of driver alerts when potentially hazardous conditions exists, and some such as automatic emergency braking can take corrective action if the driver fails to respond appropriately to a dangerous situation.
Any service replacement part not obtained from the vehicle manufacturer through a franchised dealer. many aftermarket parts are made by the same companies that supply the original equipment part to the vehicle manufacturer. 
A car that uses advanced technology to accelerate, brake and steer itself. there are six levels of vehicle autonomy designated by the society of automotive engineers standard j thirty sixteen.
The name tesla uses for their semi autonomous vehicle driving system. 
The amount of free play between two moving parts. commonly used in reference to the clearance between two gears that mesh with one another. 
Adding small amounts of weight to a wheel to offset any imbalance present in the tire and wheel assembly. proper balance eliminates wheel and tire vibrations that are annoying, can reduce traction in certain circumstances and cause increased tire and suspension wear.
The component that stores the electrical power needed to start the engine. the battery also powers vehicle accessories when there is insufficient power output from the charging system, and acts as a shock absorber for the vehicle electrical system.
The fluid in automotive batteries, a mixture of sulfuric acid and water.
A car without an internal combustion engine that is powered exclusively by electricity stored in a large onboard battery pack. many battery electric vehicles, such as the nissan leaf, have a driving range of about sixty to a hundred miles. however, the chevrolet bolt and all tesla models have larger battery packs that offer driving ranges of one forty to over three hundred miles.
A fastening device used to secure the battery firmly in place. the two most common types are a wedge that clamps over a protrusion near the bottom of the battery, or a bracket that fits around or across the top of the battery and is secured with long threaded rods.
A component that reduces friction and wear between two moving parts. there are several types of bearings. engine crankshafts generally use plain bearings, while other rotating components commonly use ball or roller bearings. 
An advanced driver assistance system that monitors the drivers blind spots at the rear quarters of the car and provides audible, visual and or tactile alerts when a vehicle is present in them.
When your vehicle reaches the limits of the suspension travel such as when going over bumps, and the vehicles springs are completely compressed. this results in a sudden transfer of noise or harshness, particularly through the steering, and possible contact of the vehicle undercarriage with the pavement.
An advanced driver assistance system that automatically applies full braking power when it detects that the driver is executing a panic stop. 
A loss of braking efficiency caused by high brake temperatures. fade typically occurs during extended and or repeated heavy brake usage. brake fade requires increased pedal pressure to maintain the same level of braking action. in extreme cases, the brake pedal may sink to the floor causing a near total loss of braking ability. 
The container that stores a supply of brake fluid until it is needed. on most vehicles, the reservoir is mounted on the brake master cylinder.
A flat disc that mounts on the wheel hub and has machined outer surfaces that the brake pads press against to slow or stop the vehicle.
Engine miss or hesitation, or transmission slip then engagement, that causes the car to lurch repeatedly as it accelerates.
The interior of the vehicle where the driver and passengers sit.
A rating that indicates the amount of power a battery can provide for engine cranking in cold start conditions.
A purified and pressurized version of natural gas suitable for use as an automotive fuel. most light duty vehicles that can use compressed natural gas have a bi fuel system that allows operation on either gasoline or compressed natural gas.
A tank that stores additional engine coolant and allows the radiator to be completely filled at all times for maximum efficiency. as the engine warms up and the coolant expands, excess is directed to the reservoir. as the engine cools and the coolant contracts, surplus in the reservoir is drawn back into the radiator. 
Pivoting suspension components that connect the vehicle chassis to the spindle that supports the wheel and tire assembly. 
The area on the vehicle body at the base of the windshield.
The car cranks when the starter motor is able to spin the engine or cause it to turn over. if the car will not crank when you turn the ignition key, you hear either a clicking sound, or nothing at all. the term crank is also used as a short form of the word crankshaft.
Largest assembly of an internal combustion engine. consists of the lower part of the engine, which contains the crankshaft, connecting rods and pistons in an oil tight housing.
When an engine loses power or misfires and feels like the engine is shut off momentarily.
A vehicle similar to an sport utility vehicle but built with unit body construction no separate frame and often based on existing passenger car structures. crossover utility vehicles offer styling similar to that of an sport utility vehicle, but come in various sizes with fuel economy, ride and handling more like a sedan than a truck. crossover utility vehicles are typically used as people haulers and most have less off road capabilities than more conventional sport utility vehicles
When the engine continues to run for a short time after the ignition is turned off. caused by high combustion chamber temperatures igniting residual fuel drawn into the cylinders. usually occurs only on older carbureted engines.
Heavy duty lubricant specifically designed to handle the requirements of the gears and mechanisms located within the differential case.
Calibrated rod used to measure the level of a fluid. on automobiles, dipsticks are commonly used to check the oil level in the engine, transmission and power steering reservoir.
An assessment of vehicle operation that takes into account how well all systems function and integrate with one another for a seamless driving experience. most commonly used in reference to powertrain operation across a wide range of temperatures and load conditions.
A system that helps reduce stopping distances by using anti lock brake system components to vary front to rear braking force. the system compensates for different vehicle loads, and normal weight transfer to the front axle during a stop.
A feature of some antilock braking systems that proportions and applies brake force to each wheel independently.
Largest assembly of an internal combustion engine. consists of the lower part of the engine that contains the crankshaft, connecting rods and pistons in an oil tight housing.
Similar to a plug in hybrid electric vehicle, an extended range electric vehicle has a much bigger battery that typically provides an electric only driving range of around thirty to forty miles. once the battery is discharged, a gasoline engine powers a generator that gives the vehicle an additional two hundred three hundred miles of extended range driving. unlike a plug in hybrid electric vehicles, the gasoline engine in an extended range electric vehicle does not directly drive the vehicle, it simply provides power to the battery, which continues to propel the car using an electric motor. the chevrolet volt is an example of an extended range electric vehicle.
An increased idle speed that typically occurs for a short time after a cold engine start to improve drivability and speed engine warm up. 
Excess fuel in the cylinders that makes starting difficult or impossible.
A system that provides the driver with an audible, visual and tactile alert when their vehicles closing rate with the one ahead indicates a collision may be imminent.
Empty
Empty
An enhanced braking system that monitors individual wheel rotation and prevents the wheels from locking up while stopping. locked wheels provide inefficient braking and sacrifice directional control, so anti lock brake system shortens stopping distances in most conditions and allows the driver to steer even when panic braking.
A microprocessor that runs diagnostic checks of a vehicles antilock braking system and processes information from wheel speed sensors and the hydraulic brake system to determine when to release braking pressure at a wheel thats about to lock up and start skidding.
Sensors mounted at each wheel that monitor the speed at which the wheels are turning. if one is turning slower than the others during braking, that indicates it is locking up, which could cause skidding and loss of steering control. anti lock brake system is supposed to intervene by rapidly pumping the brakes at the wheel that is locking up, allowing it to spin so that the driver retains braking and steering control.
The alternator is a generator that produces electricity to power the cars ignition system, lights and accessories. the engine drives the alternator by means of a belt, either with a dedicated belt or a belt shared with other pulley driven components.
Unlike the brake lines, which are metal tubes that run the length of the car, the short brake hose found at each wheel is made of rubber. the hoses job is to carry brake fluid from a brake line fixed to the cars body the rest of the way to the brake caliper on the wheel. its flexibility is what allows the wheel to move with the suspension
The air conditioning condenser is a radiator positioned between the cars grille and the engine cooling radiator in which the gaseous refrigerant sheds heat and returns to a liquid state. the liquid refrigerant flows to the evaporator inside the dashboard, where it cools the cabin.
The air conditioning evaporator is a small radiator inside the dashboard that provides cold air for the air conditioning system. it is called the evaporator because it is where the freezing liquid refrigerant takes on any heat from the air blown through it and changes into a gaseous state evaporating it before returning it to the air conditioning condenser to shed the heat, the process is constantly repeated. the air that emerges from the air conditioner is cold as a result. the evaporator is typically hidden inside the vehicles dashboard and can be labor intensive to replace, which then requires a full system recharge. 
The cabin air filter serves to clean the air drawn in by your cars ventilation system. a car may have multiple filters to achieve different objectives, such as to limit pollen or odors, to provide sequential filtering or just for packaging reasons: to provide enough filtering and airflow in a tight space.
Provides the electricity that powers the starter motor and runs electrical accessories, such as lights, audio system, air conditioner, window defroster and other components. its main parts are the battery, alternator and voltage regulator.
In the charcoal canister, the purge valve is the opening that releases fuel vapors that were absorbed by the charcoal back into the engine for combustion. 
On many vehicles with manual transmissions, a steel cable connected from the clutch pedal lever to the clutch itself is what disengages the clutch when the pedal is depressed. pushing in the pedal pulls the steel cable, which is covered by a heavy sheath, and the cable extends to disengage the clutch and let the driver smoothly shift gears. hydraulic clutches do not have cables. instead, pushing in the clutch pedal forces fluid to flow from a master cylinder to a slave cylinder that moves the pressure plate and disengages the clutch.
Hydraulic clutches for manual transmissions use brake fluid to supply pressure to disengage the clutch from the engine. pushing in the clutch pedal makes fluid flow from a master cylinder or fluid reservoir to the slave cylinder, which moves the pressure plate, allowing the driver to shift gears.
The cylinder head gasket provides a seal between the engine block and the head that caps the cylinders. the gasket not only contains the pressure of controlled explosions within the cylinders but also isolates the cylinders, oil and cooling channels from each other. 
The window regulator is the mechanical assembly that moves a window up and down when power is supplied to an electric motor or, with manual windows, the window crank is turned. window regulators are mounted inside the door panel, out of sight and out of mind until they do not work.
The exhaust manifold gasket is sandwiched between the engine block and exhaust manifold.
Is part of the fuel pump assembly and is mounted on top of the tank or inside the tank. it is part of the evaporative emissions system commonly referred to as evaporative emission control and reads pressure in the fuel system to detect evaporative leaks, such as a loose or faulty gas cap
Empty
Empty
Substances used to wear away a surface by friction.
Comfort, convenience and safety products not essential to the performance of a vehicle such as audio, security products, floor mats and seat covers.
Chemicals that are added to the engine, cooling system, air conditioning system or transmission to maintain or enhance performance.
Chemicals and accessories that enhance the appearance of a vehicle, such as waxes, polishes, protectants and upholstery cleaners.
Businesses specializing in electrical and lighting products for commercial vehicles.
Companies that provide repair and maintenance products for passenger cars and light trucks.
The maintenance, repair, parts, accessories, chemicals and fluids for vehicles after their original sale. this term often refers only to the auto care market for cars and light trucks.
Establishments where automotive products comprise more than fifty percent of total inventory and where retail sales comprise more than fifty percent of total sales.
Firms whose primary activity is motor vehicle collision repair.
A group of businesses that buy together in large quantities to get discounted prices.
Jobbers that are owned, in part or in full, by their primary supply warehouse.
Establishments that primarily sell new or used automobiles. they usually have a service and parts department either on premises or at another location.
A business discipline where vendors and retailers work together in the management of product categories in order to streamline operations and increase sales.
Retail establishments, which are part of an organization operating four or more similar types of stores.
Compact, self service retail stores that are open long hours and carry a limited line of brands and sizes, possibly including gasoline. examples include seven eleven and circle k.
Salesperson at a retail or jobber outlet responsible for looking up parts and handling customer needs.
Large mass merchandise retail stores, which carry a wide variety of products. many department stores include automotive service departments. examples include sears, jcpenney, macys and bloomingdales.
Do it for me. refers to when consumers use professionals to perform the maintenance and repair work needed on their vehicles.
Do it yourself. refers to when consumers perform the maintenance and repair work needed on their vehicles.
Retail establishments that meet the requirements of a department store, but have lower cost structures and typically sell at lower prices than conventional department stores.
Firms with products distributed primarily to other distributors, most of which are either of common ownership with the distribution center or substantially related to the distribution center in the distribution channel.
Establishments that primarily sell pharmaceutical and other health care products. many sell a limited or intermediate line of automotive products. examples include consumer value stores, walgreens and eckerd.
Vehicle service shops owned by a company not principally engaged in the business of vehicle service but which operate shops for the primary purpose of maintaining their own vehicle fleet.
Free on board. term designating that the purchaser pays freight from the time the shipment is placed aboard a truck or train. legal title for the goods passed to the buyer at this time and location.
Empty
Empty
Some transmissions can learn and adapt to the drivers style, altering shift points and other transmission functions to produce the most efficient operation.
An abbreviation for air control valve.
A force created aerodynamically, such as by an airfoil.
An abbreviation for ampere. 
A unit of measure for current. 
Amperes per hour, a standard measure for a current flow rate.
The positively charged electrode in an electrolytic cell toward which current flows.
New architecture which includes an electric motor managed electronically, intercalated between the engine and the gearbox, replacing the starter, the alternator and the flywheel. in addition to the battery and silent and instantaneous start up, it is able to constantly provide an auxiliary power of approximately five kilowatts. a stop and go function makes it possible to save up to fuel in urban driving. it also makes it possible to smooth the acyclisms of the main engine and facilitate hill starts. lastly, it makes it possible to have, inside the cabin, two twenty volts to connect common electrical appliances.
Anti skid regulation. electronic device making it possible to reduce or even remove the skidding of the drive wheels by acting on the brakes, and possibly on engine management.
The energy output of a battery measured in amp per hours. 
The part of a battery made from two dissimilar metals and an acid solution. a cell stores chemical energy for use later as electrical energy.
The restoration of chemical energy to a battery by supplyinga measured flow of electrical current to it for a specified time.
An electrical device that is used for restoring a battery to its original state of charge by passing a current through its original state of charge by passing a current through the battery in a direction opposite to the discharge current flow.
The three major united states automotive manufacturers, chrysler, ford, and general motors.
A small, lightweight, off road vehicle
Fuels either of plant origin or resulting from a fossil mixture of fuel and vegetable additive for example, diester, thirty percent methyl plant oil or vegetable oil or oil esters, seventy percent diesel.
The driver or passenger compartment of a truck or off road vehicle or short for taxicab.
A california agency responsible for regulations intended to reduce air pollution, especially that created by motor vehicles.
A container filled with charcoal in an evaporative control system used to filter and trap fuel vapors.
A toxic byproduct of refrigerant twelve, and other chlorofluorocarbons, toxic if allowed to come into contact with an open flame or heated metal.
A toxic byproduct of refrigerant twelve, and other chlorofluorocarbons, toxic if allowed to come into contact with an open flame or heated metal.
A lead sensitive substance, such as platinum, palladium or rhodium, that accelerates or enhances a chemical reaction without being changed itself. when used in a catalytic converter, it can reduce the level of harmful pollutants in the exhaust.
The exact point midway between the front and rear wheels of a vehicle.
An abbreviation for continuous injection system.
A two door, four or five passenger vehicle with limited rear seating.
A set of three or four gears on a common shaft in a manual transmission.
An abbreviation for compressed natural gas. 
A symbol for carbon monoxide. 
A bus. 
A motor home
An enclosed, two door sedan of yesteryear. 
A large, four wheeled carriage, the forerunner of the modern vehicle.
The measure of the resistance of one surface moving against another.
To be ahead of a competitor by more than a car length in side by side racing, so daylight is visible between the two vehicles.
An abbreviation for direct current. 
The part of the heater system designed to clear heavy frost or light ice from the inside or outside of the windshield.
A standard procedure that is followed to locate and identify the cause of a malfunction.
An engine operating cycle where air is compressed and fuel is injected at the end of the compression stroke, causing ignition.
A switch that allows the driver to select either high  or low beam operation of the headlights, and to switch between the two.
An abbreviation for electronic control module. 
An abbreviation for electronic control unit. 
An abbreviation for exhaust gas recirculation. 
A device consisting of a ferrous metal core and a coil that produces appreciable magnetic effects when an electric current exists in the coil. 
Unwanted, harmful chemicals and chemical compounds that are released into the atmosphere from a vehicle, especially from the tailpipe, crankcase, and fuel tank, including unburned hydrocarbons, carbon monoxide, nitrogen oxides, particulates and sulfur. 
A rotating, twisting action developed by the engine that is measured in pounds, feet or kilowatt hours.
A system that prevents fuel vapors from escaping to the atmosphere while the engine is off.
An abbreviation for federation internationale du sport automobile, international motorsport federation. 
The particulate filter is an element of filtration which reduces the polluting particulate emissions to the measurable limit.
Empty
Empty
Adaptive cruise control scans the area ahead of your vehicle when the cruise control is on,  automatically throttle and brakes to maintain a safe distance from traffic in front of the vehicle.
Automotive lease guide private company that track future value of vehicles for the purpose of calculating a lease
Annual percentage rate. the cost of credit that is, the interest rate expressed as a yearly rate.
Business development center,  handles any calls for the dealership, sets appointments for the sales and service staff, and helps resolve customer problems.
Customer management system
Crossover vehicles combine sport utility vehicle design features with design features of a car
Direct fuel injection fuel is injected directly into the engine instead of mixing it with air before it reaches the intake valve passage.
Dealer management system
Department of motor vehicles
Abbreviation for the united states department of transportation.
Daytime running lights low energy lights that switch on automatically whenever the vehicle is in operation to increase the visibility
Electronic stability control
Front wheel drive, power from the engine is sent to the front wheels only.
Empty
Empty
A component used in a fixed orifice tube system that protects the compressor from excess liquid refrigerant by means of desiccants, or the drying agents that remove moisture from the refrigeration system.
Integrated computer output circuit for the air conditioning system.
A tool used for measuring the air conditioning system's atmospheric pressures.
Located on the discharge side, the high pressure line, contains a port for servicing and checking high side pressures.
A hose used to carry refrigerant throughout the air conditioning system.
An adjustable pulley used to keep tension on the air conditioning drive belt.
A leak in the air conditioning system that regulates cool air flow and temperature to the interior of your vehicle, usually a refrigerant leak.
A fluorescent dye that is added to the air conditioning system in order to track a leak.
Located between the evaporator and compressor, the lower pressure line, which is the suction side, contains a port for servicing and checking low side pressures.
A round rubber like ring used to seal particular components of the air conditioning system.
A tube that connects components within the air conditioning system.
A computer or module used in order to switch the air conditioning system on and off.
A component of the air conditioning system, also known as the receiver drier, containing desiccants that remove moisture
A removable stem inside the high and low side fittings that holds pressure for the air conditioning system.
Absorbed glass mat is an advanced battery technology that allows the electrolyte acid to be uniformly distributed across the battery plate active material, allowing the battery to tolerate repeated deep discharges and provide an overall longer service life. absorbed glass mat batteries are safer because there is no free acid to spill and they are highly resistant to failure from vibration.
Many automatic battery charger will charge a battery in stages, beginning with the initial or bulk charge phase, which brings the battery to about three out of four of a full charge. during the absorption charge phase, the charger reduces the charge amperage but holds the voltage at a relatively high set point of around four point five volts direct current. a final maintain or float phase follows, whereby the battery is retained in a fully charged condition at about thirteen point five volts.
Also known as paste, active plate material is an absorbent lead based substance that coats the plates and converts chemical energy to electrical energy current within the battery.
From late nineteen fifties to nineteen eighties, acrylic lacquer was the most sought after automobile paint and it was mostly on luxury and expensive vehicles like rolls royce. if you want the absolute highest possible gloss or shine on your vehicle, acrylic lacquer paint is the best choice.
The system that regulates cool air flow and temperature to the interior of your vehicle.
A suspension system that uses air pressure as its spring source.
Air suspension is a type of suspension engineered by an electrical or engine driven air pump or compressor. this pump pressurizes the air, using compressed air as a spring.
A suspension system that uses contained compressed air for vehicle springing. the air suspension kit is used to restore vehicles suspension system that the air suspension is a type of vehicle suspension powered by an electric or engine driven air pump or compressor.
Various bolts types used on the vehicles chassis system used to make varying degrees of adjustment for caster, camber or toe.
Metal or plastic spacers used in the alignment process to alter camber, caster and toe. on rear wheel drive applications, shims may be added to or removed from stacks of shims on the front control arms to change camber and caster. on front wheel drive applications, partial shims or full contact shims may be positioned behind the rear axle spindle to vary rear toe and camber. camber shims are also available for four by four axle applications. some shims are adjustable or can be indexed various ways to provide incremental alignment corrections.
An analog computer is a form of computer that uses the continuously changeable aspects of physical phenomena such as electrical, mechanical, or hydraulic quantities to model the problem being solved.
A type of sensor that replaced a mechanical part.
Articulated steering is a system by which a four wheel drive vehicle is split into front and rear halves which are connected by a vertical hinge. the front and rear halves are connected with one or more hydraulic cylinders that change the angle between the halves, including the front and rear axles and wheels, thus steering the vehicle.
Fabric that provides all weather protection to your all terrain vehicle and protects against harmful pollutants and ultraviolet rays.
A liquid mixture, usually of a solid pigment in a liquid vehicle, used as a decorative or protective coating.
Axle drive flange gaskets are designed to fit between your axle tube housing end and the bearing retainer plates. they are made from quality materials and are available for most rear wheel drive applications.
An axle flange is the part of an axle that has the wheel studs coming through it in order to mount a wheel to the axle.
Backing plate gaskets protect your cars rear axle and keep water and debris out of it. it also helps prevent metal to metal contact and seal off any gaps between the metal surfaces.
A resistor inserted into a circuit to swamp or compensate changes, for example, those arising through temperature fluctuations. one similarly used to swamp the negative resistance of an arc or gas discharge. also called ballast tube. a resistor constructed of a special type wire, the properties of which tend to increase or decrease the voltage in direct proportion to the heat of the wire.
A liquid mixture, usually of a solid pigment in a liquid vehicle, used as a decorative or protective coating.
Battery discharge is the amount of electrical energy drawn from a battery over a specified period of time and for which immediate replenishment does not occur.
Battery life is the amount of time, generally measured in months, that a battery will perform within the design specification of the product. useful automotive battery life averages about four years.
Battery plates are lead based grids that are stacked in an alternating negative positive negative fashion inside each battery cell. plates in a conventional lead acid battery are interconnected by a metal strap, allowing current to be conducted across cells and between the positive and negative terminals.
Battery shelf life is the amount of time, generally measured in months, that a battery is considered serviceable in storage. generally, a battery will discharge at a rate of several percent per month. left to discharge without boosting, battery shelf life is typically about six months and upwards of one year if maintained with a battery charger.
Battery electrolyte is usually a mixture of sulfuric acid and water and acts to conduct the electrical charge across the plates within a cell. electrolyte level must be maintained within a battery so as not to allow the active material to dry.
Battery testing is a process by which the condition of a battery is verified using any of a variety of test equipment ranging from a simple voltmeter to highly accurate capacitive and load testing. battery testing is critical to avoid impending battery failure during operation and possible damage to charging system components.
Battery vents are opening typically located in the filler caps or cap manifold of a battery. vents are necessary to evacuate excessive hydrogen gas that may have built up inside the battery during charging. without venting, dangerous vapor pressure may be allowed to build inside the battery.
A bell crank is a type of crank that changes motion through an angle. the angle can be any angle from zero to three sixty degrees, although ninety degrees and one eighty degrees are common.
Tensioner is a device that applies a force to an object to maintain it in tension. often the amount of force is adjustable. there are tensioners for applying a tensioning force to drive belts and chains, fibers, and bolts.
The motor that regulates the fan in the heating and air conditioning system.
The fan that propels air in the heating and air conditioning system.
An ignition system using electronic switching devices to assist or eliminate the mechanical parts.
Breathers are a part of your vehicles emission system. breathers allow air movement between the atmosphere and the component it is installed in and relieves heat in the engine to increase performance.
Bulk charge is considered to be the first stage in automatic battery charging. this occurs when the battery charger applies a powerful amperage and voltage that is above the nominal to the battery. this first stage is responsible for about three out of four of the battery charge.
Designed to renew and revitalize your worn out chrome or plastic bumper trims, giving them a like new shine and defending them against future wear and tear.
Cable hook up as applies to vehicle batteries refers to the polarity of the battery cable or jumper cable with respect to that of the host battery. the positive battery cable is to be attached to the positive generally labeled plus battery post, and the negative cable is to be attached to the negative generally labeled battery post.
Made for indoor use and can help protect garage vehicles from dust and scratches.
A type of ignition system. it can be either all electronic or breaker point controlled.
Electrical device made of dry metal and dry insulation, used to store electrons.
Capacity offset refers to a correction factor programmed into many more sophisticated battery testers, chargers and maintainers. simply stated, the ability of a battery to take and hold a charge is influenced by atmospheric temperature. the charge rate is corrected or offset according to the ambient temperature.
A car cover protects your vehicle from dust, direct sunlight, tree sap and more.
The negatively charged cell from which current flows in an electrolytic cell.
A battery cell is a container within the battery case that holds a prescribed number of positive and negative battery plates, their separators and the electrolyte. in a conventional twelve volt battery, there are six cells, each producing just over two volts. each cell within a battery is connected in series via a metal strap.
Paints that provide an illusion of sparkling or changing colors.
Charge control for batteries is the regulation of charge current and or voltage used to charge or maintain a battery.
Charging cycle is a program or series of programs used by battery chargers for replenishing a discharged battery.
A mechanical coupling used to join and grip mating parts.
An automotive painting technique in which a coating of clear lacquer or other synthetic liquid is applied over the base color to enhance the shine and durability of the paint.
Clear coat paint, or a clear coat finish as it is commonly referred to, is paint that does not contain any pigment or color.
Coachwork is the body of a motor vehicle. the term is usually reserved for bodies built on a separate chassis, rather than being of unitary or monologue construction.
A coil for each spark plug.
An alternating current in the primary side of the ignition coil.
It is the squeezing of the fuel air mixture in the cylinder of a spark ignition engine or the squeezing of the air in a diesel engine. compression makes the process of combustion more effective and increases engine efficiency.
The collection of moisture removed from ambient air.
Constant current is an older technology method for charging batteries. it is also known as trickle charging when the application is a small amount of current. constant current means that the charge current does not change regardless of the batteries state of charge.
A mechanical switch in the distributor with two metal contact points usually made of silver, platinum, or tungsten that open and close. when the points are closed, energy is stored in the primary windings of the coil. when the breaker points open, this energy is transferred to the secondary windings of the coil and stepped up, resulting in a high voltage to fire the plugs.
The lower engine gasket set.
Corrosion, as pertains to batteries, is a chemical reaction that occurs both inside and outside the battery. internally, the sulfuric acid electrolyte acts to corrode the plates over time, eventually reducing the strength and density of the plates. externally, acid spillage or fumes acts to chemically corrode metals in contact or near the battery. specifically, corrosion is commonly known to occur on the battery cable ends and cable wire.
Battery covers are often specified by the original equipment vehicle manufacturer in order to insulate the battery from engine heat and protect adjacent components from the battery.
Crab steering is a special type of active four wheel steering. it operates by steering all wheels in the same direction and at the same angle. crab steering is used when the vehicle needs to proceed in a straight line but under an angle, or when the rear wheels may not follow the front wheel tracks.
A detection device which picks up signals to locate the position of a part and sends the information to the electronic control unit.
Cranking amps is the amount of current that a battery can deliver at thirty two degrees fahrenheit. specifically, it is the number of amps that a battery can deliver for a period of thirty seconds while maintaining a minimum of one point two volts per cell seven point two volts for a twelve volt battery. cranking amps is often referred to as marine cranking amps.
The lower section of the engine that supports the crankshaft, confined by the lower block casting and the oil pan.
Car cover that is designed to fit the exact make and model of your vehicle.
Cycle life is the amount of discharge and recharge cycles that a battery can tolerate before it fails to meet the design specifications of output. the depth of discharge are carefully controlled during determination of cycle life.
A deep cycle battery is a specific design that allows the battery to be deeply discharged and recharged many times without substantial degradation to performance or battery life. typical applications for deep cycle batteries are marine trolling motor batteries, motorhomes and campers and solar power systems.
Drying agents that absorb and remove moisture from the air conditioning system.
To protect the intricate moving parts of your differential, an aluminum differential cover is the perfect answer, adding an extra layer of protection to your vehicle's underside.
Differential gaskets seals the differential housing and protects the rear end gears and axles from exposure to the elements.
Tracked vehicles such as bulldozers and tanks usually employ differential steering   that is, the tracks are made to move at different speeds or even in opposite directions, using clutches and brakes, to bring about a change of course or direction.
The discharge rate is the amount of amperage drawn from a battery over a specified amount of time.
A unit in the ignition system designed to make and break the ignition primary circuit and to distribute the resultant high voltage to the proper cylinder at the correct time.
An insulated cover containing a central terminal or tower with a series one per cylinder of terminals or towers that are evenly spaced in a circular pattern around the central terminal or tower, the secondary voltage travels to the central terminal or tower where it is then channeled to one of the outer terminals or towers by the rotor. the cap also keeps dirt and moisture out of the distributor.
A dual purpose battery typically refers to a unit that performs the function of both a starting and deep cycling battery. many absorbent glass mat batteries perform this dual function.
Dupli color is known for its perfect match in touch up automotive paints.
An electric spark is a type of electrostatic discharge that occurs when an electric field creates an ionized electrically conductive channel in air producing a brief emission of light and sound. a spark is formed when the electric field strength exceeds the dielectric field strength of air. this causes an increase in the number of free electrons and ions in the air, temporarily causing the air to become an electrical conductor through dielectric breakdown.
An ignition system using electronic switching devices to assist or eliminate the mechanical breaker points.
Due to heavier body, these paints are harder for application. enamel paints dry slowly as they have a heavy body. if filtered air supply does not exist in working area, they may receive lint, dust or other imperfections. but due to same heavy body, they deliver excellent performance.
An electronic engine control system which covers at least the functioning of the fuel injection and ignition, but may also include emission controls and self diagnostics.
Using a vacuum pump to remove all atmospheric air and moisture from inside the air conditioning system.
The act of changing a liquid to a vapor.
A component of the air conditioning system that removes heat from the air located within the evaporator housing.
A term used for the thermal expansion valve.
A metal ring used on the exhaust to seal pressure. a piece of thin compressible material such as cork, rubber, or soft metal, placed between two mating surfaces to form a seal.
Exhaust manifold gaskets seal gaps to keep exhaust fumes out of the emissions system, as well as reduce engine noise and improve fuel efficiency.
If you have ever considered repainting your vehicle, there are various types of exterior car paints that are available. achieving the perfect car paint finish usually involves several different types of paint or finish to ensure proper bonding of the paint to the metal surface of the vehicle and to create a glossy shine that is attractive.
A flannel car cover material is one hundred percent cotton or cotton or polyester blends. flannel covers are not water resistant and should not be used outside for long periods of time. for indoor use, the one hundred percent cotton flannel cover is the gentlest on the paint and probably the best choice. if you store your car over the winter, or drive your pride and joy infrequently, a one hundred percent cotton cover may be a wise investment.
Float step is a breakpoint in a non linear battery charger whereby the charge current is either ramped up or down depending upon the state of charge.
A flooded battery is a considered to be a conventional battery. it is constructed of lead plates, coated with active material and contained within cells in the battery case. each cell is flooded to approximately the top of the plates with sulfuric acid.
A four stroke engine also known as four cycle is an internal combustion engine in which the piston completes four separate strokes   intake, compression, power, and exhaust during two separate revolutions of the engines crankshaft, and one single thermodynamic cycle.
The registered trademark for several different types of refrigerants.
Front wheel drive is a form of engine or transmission layout used in motor vehicles, where the engine drives the front wheels only. most modern front wheel drive vehicles feature a transverse engine, rather than the conventional longitudinal engine arrangement generally found in rear wheel drive and four wheel drive vehicles.
Ride height also called ground clearance or simply clearance is the amount of space between the base of an automobile tire and the underside of the chassis, or, more properly, to the shortest distance between a flat, level surface, and any part of a vehicle other than those parts designed to contact the ground such as tires. ground clearance is measured with standard vehicle equipment, and for cars, is usually given with no cargo or passengers.
A combination of vaporized fuel and air which is brought into the cylinder through the carburetor or fuel injectors. when it is compressed and ignited, it produces the power needed to drive the engine. a mist consisting of fuel and air that's compressed in the cylinders and ignited to drive the pistons in a car's engine.
Empty
A y pipe is an exhaust pipe designed improve exhaust flow and increase horsepower by splitting the i pipe from the exhaust manifold. y pipe can also refer to a two into one fitting for air intake systems.
Empty
Empty
A car equipped with all wheel steering means that the rear wheels can turn in the direction of the front wheels, which typically improves handling dynamics. acuras new r l x flagship sedan features a proprietary precision all wheel steering system that takes this concept further by allowing the wheels to point inward to help improve braking.
Type of transmission that automatically changes gears instead of making the driver shift through them manually.
Bespoke is a term borrowed from the world of fashion that essentially denotes a vehicle often luxury with a great deal of customization and driver personalization.
Bluetooth is a radio system with the ability to transmit data over short distances, usually a maximum of thirty feet or so. in a car, a bluetooth connection is typically in the form of wireless music streaming and hands free phone usage.
An air pathway near the engine designed to allow more cool air into a cars engine. more gas can mix with cool air than with warm air, thereby increasing engine performance.
A donut refers to the small spare tire typically found in the trunk of a car. not for eating.
Abbreviation for the united states governments environmental protection agency.
A flannel car covers material is one hundred percent cotton or cotton or polyester blends. flannel covers are not water resistant and should not be used outside for long periods of time. for indoor use, the one hundred percent cotton flannel cover is the gentlest on the paint and probably the best choice. if you store your car over the winter, or drive your pride and joy infrequently, a one hundred percent cotton cover may be a wise investment.
Empty
Empty
Automotive industry action group is a consortium of industry experts from major car manufacturers that collaborate to develop quality processes, establish global standards for development and production and harmonize business practices between companies. the policies and procedures that automotive industry action group have developed are applied up and down the supply chain for all areas of automotive engineering.
The american national standards institute is the overall voice of the united states standards and conformance system that works to create norms and guidelines used by all business sectors within the united states with the mission to increase global competitiveness by creating conformity and integrity with assessment systems used by the standards teams.
Advanced product quality planning is a checklist of procedures and techniques used to develop and launch a product in the automotive industry. the advanced product quality planning looks at all areas of the development process from design to production and end of life.
The term assembly can be a general term for an assembled component or an assembly. a part would be a single unit and the assembly would be the group assembled together this can also refer to the overall process or department responsible for assembling a component or entire vehicle.
An audit is the process where quality engineers or representatives review the policies and procedures of the automotive company to ensure they meet industry requirements and are maintaining records as required to remain certified in the industry.
Forces or direction that is applied along the axis. if you picture a wheel on a car, axial would be the direction the axle is running, though the center of the wheel.
The relationship between the front wheels and the windshield of a vehicle which varies depending on whether the vehicle is front or rear wheel drive.
The process of reverse engineering a competitors product to assess how your product compares to their design and technology. benchmarking gives insight into new designs, materials and technologies as well as new engineering ideas that can be used to improve a product design. cars are either benchmarked cooperatively by two companies looking for mutual gain, or are benchmarked by purchasing a product to analyze and gain insights on technological advantages.
This is an industry term that describes the metal body of the car prior to any assembly or paint job applied. the body in white is the product that comes directly from the body shop in an automotive assembly plant.
Lateral lines where the maximum width of the vehicle can be measured mirrors excluded.
A listing of all the materials, subassemblies and components that are used to assemble a top level assembly. usually a bill of material refers to the top level assembly of a particular product or vehicle. bill of material can also be used to describe the parts list for any assembly that is made up of multiple parts.
Similar to swage line, feature line or character line, a hard, positive only, linear peak in the body of a vehicle that even though it is not a structural feature, can impact the performance of a vehicle.
A boss is a piece of material that protrudes from the surface of the work space and is used to precisely locate another part so that they operate together correctly.
A bottleneck is the slowest station in the assembly process that determines the overall production rate.
Broken edge describes a condition where the edge of a sheet of metal contains cracks or splits and is generally uneven.
A machining process that polishes a material down until the surface is smooth and shiny in appearance.
A rough edge on a part that is a by product of the machined part. sometimes called a sliver or a chip, burrs are usually sharp and undesirable.
The use of a computer and specialized software to design, modify, simulate and analyze the design of a vehicle and its subcomponents.
The use of specially configured computers that monitor manufacturing process automation and can make adjustments to avoid bottlenecks and optimize production throughput times.
A car recall is performed by an automotive manufacturer when a quality defect has been identified that must be corrected because there is a chance that a passengers safety could be impacted. when a car recall occurs the automotive manufacturer assumes all cost for the repair and replacement of the flawed part
Casting uses molds to make solid objects from glass, plastic or metals where the material is heated until its in liquid form then allowed to cool until it hardens into the shape of the mold.
A part cell or a manufacturing cell is a station in the manufacturing assembly process line where a specified assembly, test or other function is performed. it refers to the group of machine as a whole.
A chamfer is formed by beveling a sharp edge such as a corner typically at a forty five degree angle.
A process to coordinate change to a design or production process where all areas of the change are evaluated and a comprehensive plan put in place to implement the change to avoid quality defects.
Tooling or die changeover in manufacturing is when these pieces are removed from manufacturing equipment so a different part can be produced. tooling or die are specific to a specific product.
Clay modeling is used to build early versions of prototype vehicles to allow designers to assess the overall build of a vehicle.
Computer numerical control is used in programming a process to complete specifically designed instructions and commands during manufacturing
A compilation drawing combines multiple levels of detail of a design into one top level drawing to model how a top level assembly will be built and is used to review the fit of the parts as a whole.
A component is a raw material or part of an assembly that is used to assemble a vehicle.
Prototype version of a car that is built with new features or materials that allows the design to be tested out during the development phase to verify feasibility of the new features. concept cars rarely will make it to production but are valuable development tools engineers use in the design process.
Cost of quality describes the costs a company incurs to maintaining acceptable quality levels for a product. included in the cost is the cost of failure or when quality levels fall below acceptable levels.
A corrective action is the formal name for an action taken to correct a design or production process issue that could cause a failure in the field or produce a poor quality product. corrective actions are documented with clear steps and timelines to contain and correct the problem.
Countersink is when an edge is created at the lip of a hole to allow the screw to be flush to the surface.
The term for the base of the windshield on a vehicle.
Lateral lines which travel down the main body section of the vehicle.
A critical feature on a part or drawing describes a feature that without which the part will not function as designed.
Deburr is a machining process that removes the rough edges or burrs from a machined part.
The horizontal surface of typically the back of the vehicle or the trunk lid.
A defect in the automotive industry is a fault or imperfection in the design or as a result of the production process.
The process where automotive design engineers design parts that can be easily manufactured without requiring specialty equipment.
Design of experiments is when an engineering and quality team designs an information gathering experiment to gather information, solve a quality issue or try a new design idea to validate an idea or identify root cause of a quality issue.
Design failure mode effects and analysis looks at the potential failure modes, their severity and chance of occurrence in the design of an automotive product. these modes are ranked and preventative actions taken to improve the quality of the design.
A die is a tool used in the manufacturing process that is used to cut a material using a mechanical press of some sort.
The deutschesinstitutfrnormungis the german standards organization that is their branch of international organization for standardization which manages the standards for a majority of the technologies in the country.
The atmospheric resistance to forward movement
A machining process that uses a rotating head in a variety of shapes and sizes to cut a hole in a part.
Fuel is consumed by the engine and the force generated is applied to the transmission which propels the vehicle forward. cars are designed to withstand more torque when in drive mode than in coast mode.
The ability of a material to resist decay, wear and tear during its useful life.
Electro chemical is the process of removing burrs, or machining defects, from a metal using electrochemical processes on electrically conductive materials using a process that is the reverse of electroplating.
Engineering change request is the form that initiates the change process. a cross functional team then assesses the change and what will be required before initiating and engineering change order to the team to put the change in place.
The study of how humans interact with the vehicle or human engineering. automotive engineers will look at the design of the cockpit and how humans will interact with all the necessary controls of the vehicle to make it as comfortable as possible for the driver and the passenger
Ergonomics is the study of workplace design and how people interact with the tools and equipment so that they work in the most efficient, safe, comfortable and productive manner to reduce the occurrence of injuries due to repetitive more or stress.
A suite of computer software that includes numerous applications that when managed together allows all areas within the business to work together. applications include product planning, manufacturing, inventory, shipping and billing and enterprise resource planning provides an integrated view of all the processes. systems, applications, and products is probably the most popular of the enterprise resource planning products and is used widely in automotive.
 factor of safety safety factor is the ratio of the stress required to break a material to the calculated maximum stress the material can endure without breaking during ordinary use.
The area above the vehicle wheels or the portion of the body panel that starts at the front bumper and end at the first door.
Failure mode effects analysis is a failure analysis technique used by automotive engineers to look at potential areas where failures can occur in both the product design and production and provides a system to assess the impact, severity and occurrence so that preventive actions can be taken. failure mode effects analysis are conducted on product designs, production processes and product performance and capabilities.
Empty
Empty
The final shape of the battery system in an electric vehicle, composed of modules, a surrounding enclosure, high voltage hardware and protective or structural features.
The combination single speed transmissions and electric motors that give electric vehicles horsepower and torque. general motors third generation electric vehicles will be powered by a family of five drive units known as ultium drive which is expected to offer industry leading torque and power density. ultium drive contains single speed transmissions and up to two electric motors in the same drive unit, and all related power electronics. 
The battery is the energy center of the electric vehicle and is recharged by plugging the ev into an electrical outlet or charging station. 
Similar to a traditional trunk, but instead of being in the back of a vehicle, an e trunk is located in the front. general motors electric vehicles may have an e trunk, due to the extra space from not having an engine or transmission. this feature may also be referred to as  front trunk  or  frunk  in the industry.
The plant, formerly known as detroit hamtramck, dedicated to building vehicles that advance general motors zero crashes, zero emissions, zero congestion vision. factory zero will open in twenty twenty one and build the cruise origin, the general motors company hummer electric vehicles, the general motors company hummer electric vehicles sports utility vehicles, and the chevrolet silverado electric pickup truck of globally sourced parts.
Empty
Empty
Air conditioning services consist of any service performed on the equipment that delivers cool air to the cabin of your car. the major components of your air conditioning system include the compressor, condenser, evaporator, expansion valve, and refrigerant. there are a variety of problems that can hinder your air conditioners ability to generate cold air, it may be as simple as needing to add refrigerant. however, normal wear and tear causes seals, hoses, and fittings to get loose and wear out. when this happens, refrigerant can leak out.
The air conditioning compressor is one of the main components of the air conditioning system and the first step in the complex process that keeps you cool while driving. this mechanism controls temperature output and compresses refrigerant into a gas in order to move it to other parts of the air conditioning system. compressors can be compromised by leaking refrigerant.
The air conditioning drain hose transports condensation that accumulates in a catch pan, out through the bottom of your car. without proper drainage of the catch pan, water can leak onto the floorboard of your car. in other words, this small but important auto part keeps your shoes and carpets dry.
Like a radiator, the job of the air conditioning condenser is to remove the heat the refrigerant accumulated when it was compressed into gas by the compressor. condensers are susceptible to blockage from leaves, dust, and insects, but they may also become internally clogged with metal debris if the compressor has a catastrophic failure.
When refrigerant reaches the air conditioning evaporator, it is a cool, low pressure liquid. the evaporator returns the liquid back into a gas again because gas does a better job of absorbing heat. with the heat gone, the adjacent fan can now blow cool air into the cabin of the car. although evaporators do not fail very often, replacing them can be costly due to the complexity of the labor involved, this component is usually buried deep beneath the instrument panel.
The air conditioning drier contains a desiccant that is designed to absorb moisture that gets into the system from humidity in the air, and is usually built with a filter that traps debris. this component should be changed anytime the air conditioning system is opened for service because desiccants are not effective once they become saturated with moisture.
Holding together the main components of your brake system are a variety of screw assemblies, springs, bolts and caliper brackets. each brake system requires a unique set of hardware for the proper operation of your brake system.
The exhaust pipe is part of your cars exhaust system. like a chimney on a house, it is designed to release exhaust away from the vehicle and into the air. exhaust pipes connect to the muffler and are often attached to the rear end of the car with a bracket. exhaust pipes are susceptible to damage from rear end collisions, failed brackets, broken seals, and corrosion from age.
Flushing is designed to rid the engine of any residue and debris that clogs up the mechanisms and hinders their performance. to flush the engine, the oil is removed and a chemical is poured in where the oil would normally go so that it flows through various parts of the engine, removing any gunk along the way. after the chemical has done its job and flowed back out of the engine through the bottom, new oil is added. though this type of treatment is seldom needed on newer cars, old cars where the old has not been changed in a long time may benefit from flushing the engine. other systems requiring flush services include, radiator and cooling systems, power steering, transmissions, differentials and brake systems. all of these systems lubricate components that can be equitably as expensive as engines.
Empty
Empty
Four speed automatic transmission
Five speed automatic transmission
Six speed automatic transmission
Advanced driving autonomous systems
Adaptive driving beam
Hybrid vehicle
Automatic height controller
Automated manual transmission
Adaptive front light
Adaptive front light system
 automated truck loading systems
Liquefied petroleum gas when used as a vehicle fuel
Coupled cam phasing
Methane
Carbon dioxide
Continuous variable valve lift
Dual cam phasing
Dual clutch transmission
Cylinder deactivation
Diesel homogeneous charge compression ignition
Discrete variable valve lift
Discrete variable valve lift, includes intake valve cam phasing
Improved electric accessories
Electronically assisted turbocharging
Electronic fuel injection
Exhaust gas recirculation
Electro hydraulic camless valve actuation
Electromagnetic camless valve actuation
Electrohydraulic power steering
Electronic parking brake
Electric power steering
Air resources board emission factors modeling software
Electronic stability program
Electric water pump
Fixed displacement compressor
Federal test procedure
Empty
Empty
Rear shock absorbers that provide load leveling without a host of moving parts or an on board air compressor internal shock valving senses ride height and uses energy from the vehicles motion to increase hydraulic pressure and raise the shock to the desired ride level as the vehicle is driven, the shocks quickly pump up to the necessary pressure, and the vehicles original ride level is restored
Soft, lower body extension attached below the front bumper improving vehicle performance by limiting the amount of airflow directed under the vehicleimproves aerodynamics and redirects the airflow to the engine compartment for improved engine cooling or air conditioning performanceassists in reducing aerodynamic lift, turbulence and drag
A component of the air conditioning systemcondenses and filters moisture and contaminants from pressurized air from the air compressormost air dryers use a drying agent known as a desiccant to remove moisture from the airmoisture is automatically expelled when the compressor unloads
Single seat, either driver or passenger, which incorporates an air activated suspension system to help eliminate the jolts and bounces of the truck cabnote: normally air suspension seats require that the truck be equipped with air brakes to supply air to the seatsome seats feature an integral air compressor so the occupant can energize the seat on vehicles that are not equipped with air brakes
The measure or ratio of the amounts of air and fuel being fed to the engines cylinders. the powertrain control module powertrain control module computer adjusts the air or fuel mixture to provide the best combination of performance and fuel efficiencya higher percentage of fuel to air is described as a rich mixture, while a lower percentage of fuel to air is termed a lean mixtureon ford vehicles, the air or fuel mixture is measured by an electronic sensor that provides input to the powertrain control module systems
To determine minimum capacity for an alternator:minimum alternator output  equals to total load times one point two zero, where total load comprises continuous night winter loadadd twenty percent point two zero to accommodate anticipated intermittent loadin most cases, a two point five one to one or better alternator drive ratio will provide a reasonably adequate system output
Utilizes light emitting diode lights to illuminate the vehicle interior: foot wells, cup holders, and controls, depending upon the vehicleoffers the ability to change color to suit your mood. color selections include aqua, blue, green, purple, red, yellow or white lighting
Provides ambient light sensitive automatic on off control of the exterior lights normally controlled by the headlamp control switchcomes preprogrammed to keep the lights on for approximately twenty seconds after the ignition switch is turned offif desired, the time delay can be reprogrammed on some vehicles to keep the lights on for up to three minutes after the ignition is turned off. 
Auto lock feature will lock all the doors, lift gate and liftgate window when all doors are closed, the ignition is in the on position, the vehicle is shifted into any drive gear putting the vehicle in motion
Used on many light trucks for load stability or to support heavy loads with minimal effect on ride characteristicshelp control roll and sway of trucks with high bodies that carry loads that might shift when cornering or operating on high crowned roadsusually used on rear leaf springs, and are mounted to act only after the regular springs are partially deflected under heavy loads
Type of rear drive axle offering two reduction ratios and a control mechanism for selecting either ratio at the drivers discretionlo axle range the higher numerical ratio provides maximum pulling powerhi range the lower numerical ratio provides maximum road speedtwo speed rear axle permits split shifting in the lower transmission gears to obtain evenly spaced gear steps that optimize available engine powertwo speed axle can be used in lo range for crisp performance at slower speeds or in hi range for maximum economy on the highway
Full floating rear axle   generally used in heavier duty applications. the full floating axle shafts float within the outer axle housing where they drive the wheels. the outer housing supports the entire rear weight through double opposed wheel bearings, which absorb all load and wheel stresssemi floating rear axle   the axle shafts and wheel bearings not only support the total weight, but also transmit driving torque to the wheels. this axle system also resists stress due to skidding, turning corners and other traction forces
Feature on some vehicles that automatically turns off interior or under hood lights after a set period of time for example, thirty to forty five minutes, to help prevent battery power drainage and save enough power to restart the vehicle.
Type of foam used in mustang and escape or escape hybrid seat productionproduction of bio foam is designed to emit less carbon dioxide into the atmospherematerial is designed to require less energy to produce than the petroleum based foamemphasizes fords commitment to its environmental responsibility
Type of vehicle construction with the body attached to a separate frame, often with rubber mounts to reduce squeaks and rattles, helping to isolate road noise and vibrationtypically more sturdy and robust when compared to vehicles with unibody constructionprovides a solid foundation that contributes to payload and towing capability
While these two terms are frequently used together, they are two totally different measurementsbore is the measurement of the inside diameter of a cylinderstroke is the distance the piston travels from top dead center to bottom dead center of the cylinder
Frame mounted steps located on each side of the truck cargo box and in front of the rear wheel well used to make it easy to access the cargo box. able to support up to five hundred pounds.allow convenient side access to the cargo box using a release lever located on the stepreturn to stowage position by pushing the steps back into or under the cargo box
As the name implies, a boxed frame has four sides, which provides additional strength. it is a closed structural section that has greater resistance to twisting and torsion forces than comparably sized open frame designs.
Requires driver to depress the brake pedal in order to shift out of park and into any gearprevents accidental engagement of drive gearsvehicles with a floor mounted gear shift lever include a manual override in the console, vehicles with a column mounted gear shift include a manual override under the steering column
Safety valve designed to protect the air supply of a tractor or leading trailer and automatically apply the brakes of a trailing unit in the event of accidental separation.
Two aluminum rails attached to the upper rail of a cargo boxinclude four adjustable tie down cleats that can be positioned along the cargo box rails, providing secure attachment points to keep cargo in place
Usually made of nylon meshsecures cargo and packages in a vehicle's luggage compartment or rear cargo area
Electronically controlled metal flap located at the end of each intake runnerthese flaps are specially shaped to speed up the intake charge at low engine speed and induce a tumble affecting the combustion chamber that results in a more thorough fuel or air mixture and quicker, more efficient burnat higher engine speed the flaps are completely open and do not affect the intake charge
Unfinished truck featuring an occupant compartment, or cab, without a cargo beda chassis cab requires the addition of cargo carrying cargo box, flatbed, work performing tow lift or load bearing dump assembly components to perform its intended functions
Front seat design that is raised higher when compared to a typical seat designgives the driver and front passenger a commanding seating position for comfort and excellent visibility and helps provide drivers a better view of the road due to the raised seat designthis is achieved partly by raising the seat's hip pivot pointmakes getting into and out of the seats easier
Mechanical link between the piston and the crankshaft that enables the pistons up and down travel to be converted into the crankshaft's rotational motionsome ford engines use forged, powdered metal, cracked connecting rods. these connecting rods are manufactured using a process pioneered by fordconnecting rods are typically forged from a flat or round metal billet. powdered metal rods, however, begin as loose metal powder blended to the required composition and forged in a form that is nearly at the final net shape
Any one of the several horizontal supporting members in a vehicle structure positioned laterally between the side members.
Located behind the vehicle dashboard, this feature helps reduce steering wheel movement in the event of a frontal collision and enhances structural rigidity
Incomplete vehicle based on the ford e series van that includes a driver or passenger compartment without a rear wall and is intended for use with specialized conversion bodies.
Load in pounds required to deflect or compress a spring one inch.
Located in the exhaust system after the diesel oxidation catalystscrubs the particulates in the exhaust gases by trapping them after they have left the combustion chamberperiodically cleans itself through a process known as regeneration which is a process similar to a small incinerator that burns off the trapped particlespassive generation burns off soot naturally when exhaust temperatures are high enoughactive regeneration forced burn off occurs as needed depending on operational use
Percentage of a given vehicle's parts that are manufactured versus assembled in the united states as determined by the manufacturer and shown in the domestic content label on a new vehicle.
All ford vehicles produced on or after october first, nineteen ninety five,bear a domestic content label affixed to the fuel economy label, price sticker or other readily visible labelthis label communicates:vehicle line average percentage value based of domestic content united states and canadiannames of at least two of the countries if any providing fifteen percent or more by value of all componentscity and country of final assemblythe country of origin of the engine and transmission or transaxle
Climate control system that maintains a specified cabin temperature setting using either air conditioning or heatcontrols are arranged to enable the driver and the front seat passenger to set the same or different temperature levels within twenty degrees of each other to suit their individual comfort
A standard size unleaded fuel nozzle can be inserted directly into the fuel filler neck, opening a spring loaded door to the tanka rubber seal on the fuel filler door helps keep dirt from entering the easy fuel systemhelps reduce fuel tank evaporative emissions by eliminating a missing or improperly installed gas capincludes an emergency funnel stored near spare tire jack that must be used with the easy fuel system to accept fuel from a gas can or other secondary refueling device
Seat fabric manufactured from one hundred percent post industrial polyester fabric that would have been previously disposed of as scrap
Emphasizes fords commitment to its environmental responsibility
A climate control system that automatically maintains a specified cabin temperature using either air conditioning or heat. the system automatically sets the blower speed and displays desired temperature set points. it offers manual controls to override automatic settings when necessary.
Also known as drive by wire.electronic throttle control translates accelerator motions and other inputs into control of engine powerthe accelerator pedal controls the throttle by means of a computer controlled stepping motor in lieu of a conventional linkage from pedal to throttleit works by integrating throttle movements with the vehicles electronically controlled functions such as cruise control or idle speedenhances control, drive ability and performance
In all passenger cars and light trucks sold in the united states, energy absorbing steering columns are designed to collapse in the event of occupant contact in a frontal collision, reducing the potential head and chest injuries to the driver.
System added to a diesel engine that allows the driver to energize an engine derived vehicle retardation system. some engine brakes use compression pressures while the most common are those that employ engine exhaust. in either case, the principle is to let the engine help retard the vehicle speed, thus saving on wheel brake wear.
Fuel economy is measured under controlled conditions in a laboratory using a standardized test procedure specified by federal law and implemented by the environmental protection agency. manufacturers test their own vehicles, usually pre production prototypes and report the results to the environmental protection agency. the environmental protection agency reviews the results and confirms about ten to fifteen percent of them through their own tests at the national vehicles and fuel emissions laboratory. vehicle is driven on a roller dynamometer the vehicle remains stationary while the driven wheels are allowed to roll and a hose is connected to the tailpipe to collect engine exhaust. the carbon in the exhaust is measured to calculate the amount of fuel burned during the test. this is more accurate than using calculations based on distance traveled and the amount of fuel consumed. five separate test schedules are driven to simulate the driving conditions of city, highway, and hot weather with air conditioning on, high speed driving and acceleration, and cold weather environments. the latter three tests are new for two thousand and eight model year vehicles and will likely result in a decrease in mpg versus the same model tested under the pre two thousand and eight test procedure. driving cycles, city twenty three stops with accelerations to twenty to sixty miles per hour. highway, approximately thirteen minutes of mixed rural and interstate driving with speeds ranging from thirty to sixty miles per hour. high speed, aggressive accelerations to speeds of up to eighty miles per hour with six minutes of driving sixty to eighty miles per hour. air conditioning, ten minutes of accelerations to varying speeds up to sixty miles per hour with the air conditioning on while the vehicle is in an environment of ninety five degrees and approximately forty percent relative humidity. cold, represents urban driving in twenty degree weather. the vehicle is started with the engine cold and driven in simulated stop and go rush hour traffic.
System in which a portion of the exhaust gases is recirculated into the combustion chamber for additional burning. mixing exhaust gases with a new air or fuel mixture helps reduce harmful nitrogen oxide emissions.
Vehicle that operates on any blend of fuel ethanol and unleaded gasoline, containing up to eighty five percent ethanol fuel. should ethanol e eighty five not be immediately available, this vehicle can operate normally on unleaded gasoline
Powertrain design that uses two intake and two exhaust valves per cylinder. the improved flow of air or fuel mixture into the engine and exhaust gas out of the engine boosts power.
Frontal area of a vehicle can be a contributing factor when determining the size of trailer a vehicle can towlarger frontal area will add drag, thus reducing the vehicles ability to tow a trailerfor many vehicles, frontal area restrictions limit a trailer's size to a specific gross combined weight rating the frontal area is also a determining factor in selecting an incomplete vehicle that complies with emissions requirements
Impact activated switch, standard on all ford cars and trucks, that automatically shuts off the fuel being pumped to the engine, for added safety in the event of a collision. once the inertia type switch is triggered, it must be reset manually. refer to the specific vehicles owners guide for details on resetting the switch.
Maximum amount of stress in pounds per square inch to which a frame may be subjected through loading and return to its original shape upon removal of the stress with no deformation.
Empty
Empty
Allowing other road users go first. a yield sign assigns the right of way to traffic in certain intersections. if you see a yield sign ahead, be prepared to let other drivers crossing your road take the right of way.
A law stating that drivers under the age of twenty one with measurable blood alcohol concentration of  point zero two percent will be charged with operating under the influence.
Empty
Air bags provide vehicle drivers and passengers extra protection in a collision. they are stored in the steering wheel and dashboard and inflate during a serious crash, for example, a head on collision that occurs at over ten miles per hour. they place a protective cushion between the person and the steering wheel, dashboard, and windshield. 
Any driver who operates their vehicle in an unsafe or reckless manner. aggressive driving can endanger passengers, other drivers, pedestrians, and even the drivers themselves.
This is a rule that states that a driver must never drive faster than is safe for present conditions, regardless of the posted speed limit
Any area where the drivers view is obstructed. this can be caused by anything from poorly aligned rearview mirrors, to the car itself.
The concentration of alcohol in ones bloodstream, expressed as a percentage. blood alcohol concentration, is used to determine whether a person is legally intoxicated, especially under a driving while intoxicated law. 
The amount of distance required for stopping your car once the brakes have been applied. 
Also known as high occupancy vehicle lanes, they are a traffic control system that designated certain lanes as restricted to vehicles with two or more passengers. these lanes are indicated by a diamond symbol.
Contact between two or more objects, as when two vehicles collide into each other.
Insurance that provides coverage to pay the costs of repair or replacement of your vehicle involved in a collision. 
A vehicle used to transport or deliver goods or passengers for compensation between points on a fixed scheduled route. the vehicle has a gross weight, registered weight, or gross weight rating of more than twenty six thousand pounds, or is designed to transport more than fifteen passengers, including the driver.
There are two kinds of intersections: open uncontrolled and controlled intersections. controlled intersections have traffic control signs or signals. when a driver approaches this type of intersection, he or she must obey the signs, signals, and right of way rules.
Protecting yourself and others from dangerous and unexpected driving situations by using a space management system.
Illegally parking next to another vehicle that is properly parked in a stall or on the street. parking this way prevents other drivers from leaving their parking spaces and stalls the flow of double parking is a traffic violation punishable by fine
Any event or occurrence that directs the drivers attention away from the task of driving.
A manual provided by the state department, or bureau of motor vehicles that contains information about licenses, examinations, road signs, laws and rules of the road, seat belts, and safety issues
A portion of the highway or roadway used by a vehicle traveling in one direction.
The following distance is the space between your car and the car ahead of you. it is recommended to keep a reasonable following distance so you can safely stop in a case of an emergency, for example, if the car ahead of you stops suddenly. a defensive driver maintains a safe following distance of at least three seconds behind the vehicle ahead. following distance should be increased during hazardous road conditions, including nighttime and inclement weather conditions.
The area a driver can see while looking straight ahead.
Empty
Empty
A pedestrian crossing without traffic lights. it has an orange light, and is marked by black and white stripes on the road. drivers must stop to to let pedestrians cross.
A marked area on the road at traffic lights, which permits cyclists or buses to wait in front of other traffic
This is a system fitted to most modern cars that prevents the wheels from locking when braking in an emergency.
To slide out of control on a wet road surface.
The transmission will automatically select gears as the driver accelerates and decelerates.
Invisible ice that covers a road surface.
The section of road behind the driver that cannot be seen in any mirror. to see the blind spot, you should look over your shoulder before moving off or overtaking.
Where brakes lose their effectiveness due to overheating and over use.
This is the measurement of a car's horsepower when it comes straight out of the crankshaft. horsepower is often lost as it is transmitted from the crankshaft and through the gears. so the horsepower that is delivered to the wheels is usually less than what is produced by the engine.
The distance you must allow to slow the vehicle to a stop.
The highest point of a hill.
This is a component that mixes the fuel and the air.
How responsive and accurate the steering is. if you were driving through a bend and you needed to make constant alterations to the steering wheel then you could say the car had bad handling. if the car went exactly where you steered it, even at high speeds, then the car would be considered to have good handling.
One side of a road or motorway.
A gadget fitted to the exhaust system that reduces pollution by turning harmful gases into less harmful ones.
The structure that acts as a mounting to the major car parts, that is, suspension system, frame, wheels and body.
A sharp double bend used as a traffic calming measure   to slow traffic down.
A road where no stopping is allowed at any time. the sign for a clearway is a red cross in a red circle on a blue background.
The clutch enables the engine to be disconnected from the transmission in order to engage or disengage the gears.
Driving a vehicle in neutral with your foot pressed down on the clutch.
When traffic on a motorway follows signs to move to the opposite carriageway for a short distance because of roadworks. this results in traffic driving in both directions on the same side of the motorway.
A car with a foldable or retractable roof. also known as a cabriolet
A car that is often the sports version of a saloon car. typically they have two doors and are less spacious in the rear.
A road or motorway with a central reservation.
Liquid in the radiator that removes heat from the engine.
You may have seen a car advertised or referred to as say a one point two litre. what this means is the engine size, or more accurately, the space that is available inside the engine's cylinders for the fuel air mix. the greater the space the greater the amounts of fuel air mix which ultimately means more power. one cylinder may have a space of  zero point five liters however the engine may have eight cylinders, which would give an engine size of four liters. this measurement is also known as engine displacement.
Has an extended rear cargo section and the full height of the car extends to the boot, which gives a much larger storage space.
Gasses that are expelled from the exhaust pipe.
Extra bright rear, and sometimes front, lights that can be turned on when visibility drops below one hundred metres.
Where a road passes through a shallow stream or river.
On a four wheel drive vehicle, power in sent to all four wheels. this allows for better grip and traction.
Most cars have front wheel drive. this is where the power is sent to the front wheels and these in turn drive the car. rear wheel drive cars are usually much better handling but also tend to be the more expensive cars to buy.
The amount of petrol or diesel that your vehicle uses.
A computerized system that mixes the fuel and air before it passes into the engine for combustion. such a system is more efficient than a standard carburettor.
