HEADER
The professional association of transportation industry engineers. The sae sets most automotive industry standards for the testing, measuring, and designing of automobiles and their components.
The distance from the point where the steering axis intersects the ground to the longitudinal line that runs through the center of the tire's contact patch. Also called " steering offset. "
As used by car and driver, the term " sedan " refers to a fixed roof car with at least four doors or any fixed roof two door car with at least thirty three cubic feet of rear interior volume, according to measurements based on sae standard J one thousand one hundred.
A slightly curved leaf spring that is attached to a car's body at its ends and to a suspension component near its middle. One of the two body attachments is a shackle, which allows for changes in the spring's length as it flexes up and down.
An independent rear suspension system in which each wheel hub is located only by a large, roughly triangular arm that pivots at two points. Viewed from the top, the line formed by the two pivots is somewhere between parallel and perpendicular to the car's longitudinal axis.
The numerical representation of a tire's aspect ratio. A fifty series tire has an aspect ratio of zero point fifty.
The mechanism in a transmission linkage that controls the motion of the gear shift lever. The shift gate is usually an internal mechanism, but, in some transmissions including ferrari five speeds and mercedes benz automatics the shift gate is an exposed guide around the shift lever.
A device that converts motion into heat, usually by forcing oil through small internal passages in a tubular housing. Used primarily to dampen suspension oscillations, shock absorbers respond to motion. Their effects, therefore, are most obvious in transient maneuvers.
A spring with a constant spring rate. For example, if a one hundred pound force deflects the spring by one inch, an additional one hundred pounds will deflect it one more inch, and so on until the spring either bottoms or fails.
A large area of smooth, flat pavement used for various handling tests. Roadholding is measured by defining a large diameter circle car and driver uses three hundred feet on the skidpad and measuring the fastest speed at which the car can negotiate the circle without sliding off.
The angular difference between the direction in which a tire is rolling and the plane of its wheel. Slip angle is caused by deflections in the tire's sidewall and tread during cornering. A linear relationship between slip angles and cornering forces indicates an easily controllable tire.
Slang for an automatic transmission.
Single overhead camshaft sohc engines use one camshaft in each cylinder head to operate both the exhaust valves and the intake valves.
A particular kind of tube frame that consists exclusively of relatively short, small diameter tubes. The tubes are welded together in a configuration that loads them primarily in tension and compression.
An aerodynamic device that changes the direction of airflow in order to reduce lift or aerodynamic drag and or or improve engine cooling.
The opposite of dive, squat is the dipping of a car's rear end that occurs during hard acceleration. Squat is caused by a load transfer from the front to the rear suspension.
The line that intersects the upper and lower steering pivots on a steered wheel. On a car with a strut suspension, the steering axis is defined by the line through the strut mount on top and the ball joint on the bottom.
The general relationship between forces at the steering wheel and handling. Ideally, the steering effort should increase smoothly as the wheel is rotated away from center. In addition, the steering effort should build as the cornering forces at the steered wheels increase. Finally, the friction built into the steering mechanism should be small in comparison with the handling related steering forces.
The relationship between yaw and the steering wheel's position and effort. All three should be proportional and should build up smoothly.
The group of design variables outside the steering mechanism that affect steering behavior, including camber, caster, linkage arrangement, ride steer, scrub radius, toe in, and trail.
A subjective term that combines steering feel and steering gain.
The ability of a car to resist road irregularities and run in a straight line without steering corrections.
The distance between the extremes of a piston's travel in a cylinder.
A suspension element in which a reinforced shock absorber is used as one of the wheel's locating members, typically by solidly bolting the wheel hub to the bottom end of the strut.
The space in the engine block under the crankshaft into which the oil drains from its various applications.
An air compressor used to force more air into an engine than it can inhale on its own. The term is frequently applied only to mechanically driven compressors, but it actually encompasses all varieties of compressors including turbochargers.
A removable roof body style popularized by porsche that is similar to a convertible except that it incorporates a fixed, roll bar like structure running from side to side behind the front seats.
A housing containing a valve to regulate the airflow through the intake manifold. The throttle body is usually located between the air cleaner and the intake plenum.
A form of fuel injection in which the injectors are located at the engine's throttle body, thereby feeding fuel to more than one cylinder. Such an arrangement saves money by using fewer injectors but because it routes both fuel and air through the intake manifold, it eliminates some of the tuning possibilities offered by port fuel injection.
A lateral link in a multilink suspension designed to control a wheel's direction as the suspension moves up and down.
The intentional nonparallel orientation of opposite wheels. Toe in is measured by subtracting the distance between the front edges of a pair of tires from the distance between the rear edges of the same pair of tires. The toe in dimension is positive when the fronts of the tires are turned toward the center of the car.
The changes in the direction of a wheel that occur without driver steering input. Toe steer can be caused by ride steer or by deflections in suspension components caused by the stresses of cornering, accelerating, and or or braking on smooth and bumpy roads.
The rotational equivalent of force, measured in pound feet.
A particular kind of fluid coupling with a third element added to the usual input and output turbines. Called " the stator, " this additional element redirects the churning fluid against the output turbine, increasing torque. This torque increase, however, is achieved at the expense of RPM and efficiency.
A tendency for a car to turn in a particular direction when power is applied. Torque steer is common in front drive cars because reaction forces created in the half shafts can generate uneven steering forces in the front tires.
A spring consisting of a long solid or tubular rod with one end fixed to the chassis and the other twisted by a lever connected to the suspension.
An electronic control system that prevents wheelspin by detecting when a driven wheel is about to break traction, and then reducing engine power and or or applying the appropriate brakes to prevent it.
A driving technique in which the driver begins to brake before entering a turn and then continues to brake as he eases into the corner. As cornering forces build, the driver gradually feathers off the brakes, trading braking power for cornering grip. By increasing the vertical loading and thus the traction at the front tires, trail braking can improve a car's turn in.
A suspension element consisting of a longitudinal member that pivots from the body at its forward end and has a wheel hub rigidly attached to its trailing end. A sufficiently rigid trailing arm can provide all of a wheel's location. In that case it is similar to a semi  trailing arm, except that its pivot axis is exactly perpendicular to the car's longitudinal center line.
A suspension link that is aligned to resist longitudinal motions in a wheel it is mounted to the chassis ahead of the wheel.
A transmission and a differential combined in one integrated assembly.
A gearbox with a number of selectable ratios, used to match the engine's RPM and torque to differing vehicle requirements.
The flexibility in the tire tread between the surface of the tread and the tire carcass. Snow tires, with their small, deep, unsupported tread blocks, have a large amount of tread squirm. Slick racing tires, which have no tread pattern, have very little squirm.
A car frame made up of rigid tubing welded together. Tube frames are easier to manufacture in small quantities than unitized frames.
The term that describes the convex curvature on the side of a car body.
Intake and exhaust systems that, by harnessing the pressure pulses and resonances inside the various passages and chambers of the intake and exhaust manifolds, increase the flow of intake charge into and out of the combustion chambers.
A supercharger powered by an exhaust driven turbine. Turbochargers always use centrifugal flow compressors, which operate efficiently at the high rotational speeds produced by the exhaust turbine.
Within a turbocharger's operating range, lag is the delay between the instant a car's accelerator is depressed and the time the turbocharged engine develops a large fraction of the power available at that point in the engine's power curve.
The moment of transition between driving straight ahead and cornering.
A handling condition in which the slip angle of the front tires is greater than the slip angle of the rears. An understeering car is sometimes said to push, because it resists turning and tends to go straight.
A type of body construction that doesn't require a separate frame to provide structural strength or support for the car's mechanical components. A unitized body can employ monocoque construction, or it can utilize strong structural elements as an integral part of its construction.
A joint that transmits rotary motion between two shafts that aren't in a straight line. Depending on its design, a universal joint can accommodate a large angular variation between its inputs and outputs. The simplest kind of universal joint, called a " hooke joint, " causes the output shaft to speed up and slow down twice for every revolution of the input shaft. This speed fluctuation increases with the angular difference between the shafts.
A high RRPM engine condition in which the valve lifters lose contact with the cam lobes because the valve springs are not strong enough to overcome the momentum of the various valvetrain components. The onset of valve float prevents higher RPM operation. Extended periods of valve float will damage the valvetrain.
Also called a " valve follower " the cylindrically shaped component that presses against the lobe of a camshaft and moves up and down as the cam lobe rotates. Most valve lifters have an oil lubricated hardened face that slides on the cam lobe. So called " roller lifters, " however, have a small roller in contact with the cam lobe thereby reducing the friction between the cam lobe and the lifter.
The collection of parts that make the valves operate. The valvetrain includes the camshafts and all related drive components, the various parts that convert the camshaft's rotary motion into reciprocating motion at the valves, and the valves and their associated parts.
A particular kind of fluid coupling in which the input and output shafts mate with thin, alternately spaced discs in a cylindrical chamber. The chamber is filled with a viscous fluid that tends to cling to the discs, thereby resisting speed differences between the two shafts. Viscous couplings are used to limit the speed difference between the two outputs of a differential, or between the two axles of a car.
A valve used to limit the boost developed in a turbocharger. A waste gate operates by allowing some of the engine's exhaust flow to bypass the turbocharger's turbine section under certain conditions.
An undesirable suspension characteristic in which a wheel or several moves up and down so violently that it actually leaves the ground. Wheel hop can be caused by many problems, including excessive unsprung weight, insufficient shock damping, or poor torsional axle control.
EMPTYROW
An automobile title with a notation that the vehicle has been damaged in excess of approximately seventy percent of its pre  accident market value. The exact percentage depends on the insurance provider and any applicable laws and regulations. This notation gets applied to a title when an insurance company pays a total loss claim on a vehicle, but then sells the vehicle at an auction center.
A proprietary system used to send and receive vehicle data, crash information, concierge services and navigation to and from a vehicle through communications satellites.
A radio receiver that receives radio signals broadcast from communications satellites rather than a conventional terrestrial tower.
A warranty that covers service procedures recommended by the manufacturer at predetermined intervals to preserve and or or prolong the life of a vehicle.
The type of adjustment control for the seats manual, power or power with memory.
Harnesses designed to secure vehicle occupants during a collision.
An attached support, consisting of a metal frame with upholstered foam, that lengthens a vehicles seat bottom.
Devices integrated into a vehicles seats that control seat temperature, seat adjustability, driver comfort and other settings.
A storage pocket that is either attached to the backside of the seat or integrated into the seat itself.
A part of the seat belt pre  tensioner that helps prevent the seat belt from being tightened to the point of injury to the occupant.
A seat belt with a mechanism that reels in the belt when the airbag is deployed for the purpose of keeping the occupant in the proper position.
The number of people that can be safely seated and restrained in a vehicle, including the driver.
A type of emissions reducing system that promotes the combustion of unburnt hydrocarbons in the exhaust stream by introducing oxygen fresh air pulled in by a vacuum created by exhaust pulsations and which essentially performs the same function as an air injection system without relying on an air pump or diverter valve.
A system used on diesel vehicles that is designed to reduce emissions. Read more.
A system that uses suspension height sensors to determine the orientation of a vehicle's body for the purpose of making up  down adjustments to the direction of the headlights, for the protection of oncoming drivers.
Sometimes referred to a an " SLS filter. " a device used to remove contaminants from hydraulic fluid in a self  leveling suspension system.
The capability of a vehicles sound system to deliver a different audio source to the rear seat passengers than the audio source being delivered to the front seat passengers.
Also referred to as " SMG, " " direct shift gearbox, " " DSG " and " automated manual transmission. " see " automated manual transmission. "
An electric vehicle with a gasoline combustion engine that is only used to recharge the vehicle? S batteries. The gasoline engine does not drive the wheels directly. An example is the chevrolet volt.
A ribbed drive belt that drives more than one engine accessory.
A light that indicates that general vehicle maintenance is needed or that a specific service is required.
Heatproof panels and padding that protect under  hood components from excessive heat.
The location of the shift control mechanism, which includes levers, paddles or buttons.
Any collection of mechanical connections between a vehicles operating controls and its transmission.
The means by which a driver changes gears, including buttons, paddles or a lever.
An automatic torque converter transmission equipped with a feature that permits the driver to actively select either fully automatic or driver controlled shift modes by using a dual gate shifter and or or remote shifter controls.
The distance from the drivers upper door panel to the front passengers upper door panel.
Small airbags that deploy from the outside edge of a seat to protect the occupant's rib cage in a side impact collision.
A sensor that determines in the event of a collision whether or not it is necessary to deploy a vehicles side curtain airbags.
A structural support designed to protect a vehicles occupants from side impacts.
A storage pocket that is either attached to the door panel of a vehicle or integrated into the vehicle door.
An autmotive insurance policy with a single combined dollar limit of coverage for property damage, liability coverage and bodily inury coverage. Compare " split limit insurance. "
A shield typically attached to the bottom of a vehicles front bumper that is designed to guard the undercarriage in the case of insufficient ground clearance.
A small window inside a trucks rear windshield that opens and closes by sliding on a system of metal or plastic rails attached to the windshield.
A designation issued by the epa for new vehicles with a score of six or higher in both air pollution and greenhouse gas emissions and a combined total of more than thirteen.
A designation issued by the epa given to new vehicles with a score of nine or higher in both air pollution and greenhouse gas emissions.
Sequential manual gearbox. Also referred to as " DSG, " " direct shift gearbox " and " automated manual transmission. " see " automated manual transmission. "
Pollutants in the hydrocarbon or nox families that produce photochemical smog when combined in the presence of sunlight.
A vehicle window that has been infused with pigment during manufacturing in order to provide enough opacity to obscure the vehicles interior from view.
The hardware needed to attach a factory optional, removable snowplow to a vehicles front bumper and or or frame.
Doors that will pull themselves shut if they are not fully latched by the occupants.
Energy derived directly from the sun through photovoltaic cells or other devices that convert light energy into electricity or heat.
A sunroof with a photovoltaic panel infused into its glass that is used to power interior ventilation fans in order to lower cabin temperature when a vehicle is parked in the sun.
A fifth wheel and tire that is stored on or in a vehicle for use when one of the four tires in use becomes disabled.
Cables that carry a high voltage electrical charge from the distributor cap or ignition coils to the spark plugs.
The number and arrangement of speakers as well as the number of independent speaker channels including center and subwoofer channels that are supported by a vehicles sound system.
Also referred to as a " subsidized lease " or " subvented lease. " a form of " incentive and rebate " that consists of a vehicle lease offered by a vehicle manufacturer in which the amount of the monthly payment is reduced below that then offered by independent leasing companies the cost of which is absorbed by the manufacturer. Typically this is accomplished by using a higher residual value or a lower interest rate, or both.
A feature in some vehicle sound systems that lowers the speaker volume in proportion to vehicle speed.
A feature that increases the speed of the wipers with vehicle speed.
A cash incentive, contest entry or prize given by a dealership to salespersons as motivation to sell vehicles.
A policy with separately stated dollar limits for different types of coverage. Bodily injury liability coverage is also usually split into a maximum payment per person and a maximum payment per accident. For example, an automobile liability policy of fifty one hundred twenty five provides a maximum of fifty thousand dollars bodily injury coverage per person, one hundred thousand dollars bodily injury coverage per accident, and a property damage limit of twenty five thousand dollars per accident. Compare " single limit insurance. "
An attachment to a vehicle or component of its body originally introduced for the purpose of directing airflow over such device or the entire vehicle to decrease lift and increase stability at high speeds, but that is sometimes used on consumer vehicles solely for aesthetic reasons.
Also known as " electronic stability control, " or " esc. " a safety feature that improves the safety of a vehicles handling by detecting skids and compensating by adjusting braking pressure to help maintain the intended direction of the vehicle. Some stability control systems also reduce engine power until control is regained.
Sometimes called an anti  roll or anti  sway bar. A device that connects the left and right sides of a suspension to limit body roll in turns.
A system typically found in hybrid vehicles that automatically stops and restarts the internal combustion engine to reduce the amount of time the engine spends idling and improve fuel economy.
An electrical switch that prevents the starter from being engaged unless certain conditions are met, such as shifter placement or brake pedal depression.
A mechanism that prevents steering wheel movement unless the ignition switch is moved from the locked position.
A shock absorber attached to the steering linkage intended to prevent abrupt " kickback " at the steering wheel, usually found on trucks or vehicles that can be used off road.
A steering mechanism that converts the rotational motion of a steering wheel to the side to side motion of a lever that is connected to the steering linkage.
A component in the steering system that connects the steering shaft to the steering mechanism.
The pivoting component to which the front wheel hubs are attached.
The arrangement of rods and lubricated joints connecting the steering gearbox to the wheel spindles.
The steering component that converts the rotational motion of the steering wheel to the horizontal motion necessary to operate the steering linkage.
The mechanism that controls the position of a vehicles steering column to suit the needs of the driver.
Electronic controls for a vehicles entertainment, cruise control, telematics and or or climate control systems that are mounted on the steering wheel for the driver? S convenience.
The physical media that a vehicle sound system is capable of playing and or or recording to, such as CD, DVD, hard drive, usb or flash drive.
The distance, in inches, between the centerline of an engines crankshaft and the centerline of its connecting rod journal.
A loan made to a borrower with a low credit rating and that typically bears interest at a higher rate to compensate the lender for the greater risk.
Super  ultra low emission vehicle. A vehicle that meets an emissions standard that is stricter than the ulev standard.
A fixed or operable opening in the roof of a vehicle that is covered with a metal or glass plug.
A removable or retractable device that limits or prevents light from passing through a vehicles window.
A dash top sensor, usually dome shaped, that measures the " sun load " on the vehicle to help improve the accuracy of the automatic climate control system.
A device powered by a belt, gear, shaft or chain connected to the engines crankshaft that forces air into an internal combustion engine in order to increase engine power.
A " toothed " belt used to drive a pulley that turns the impeller of a centrifugal style supercharger.
A liquid used to lubricate the internal components for example, the impeller and the bearings of a supercharger.
A fluid used in suspension systems that are hydraulically adjustable.
The relationship between the placement of the mounting points for each of a vehicles suspension components.
An instrument that tells the driver how fast the engine is rotating, commonly including a redline to indicate the maximum engine speed.
A set of housings that include a vehicles brake lamps, reverse lights and rear turn signal lights.
A semi  convertible body style with a removable roof section and a fullwidth roll bar behind the seats.
Technical service bulletins TSBS are issued by the manufacturer for problems that affect the normal operation of the vehicle. Sometimes called " secret warranties, " TSBS cover known problems and provide repair instructions for service technicians and accordingly are distributed to all of the manufacturer's dealerships. Unlike recall related repairs, which are performed on a no questions asked basis, TSB repairs are made only to resolve problems that can be verified by dealer service technicians. And generally these repairs will be free of charge only if the vehicle is still under warranty.
The integrated use of telecommunications in a vehicle.
The integrated use of telecommunications and electronic data communications in a vehicle.
A device on carbureted engines to control emissions, which contains a thermostat controlled diverter that ducts air warmed by the exhaust manifold to the carburetor during cold conditions, and then ambient air to it once a certain temperature has been attained. This enables the engine to reach a normal operating temperature and end its fuel rich inefficient cold temperature mode as quickly as possible.
Lubricated pivot points for the throttle or kickdown linkages.
A collection of mechanical connections between a vehicles accelerator pedal and its throttle body or carburetor.
The components used to control the volume of air to the engine.
Ball and socket parts of the steering linkage that connect the wheel spindles to the rack and pinion or center link.
The epas first vehicle emission program promulgated under the clean air act of nineteen ninety four, which set more stringent national vehicle emissions standards than had previously existed.
The epas second vehicle emission program promulgated under the clean air act of nineteen ninety four, which set more stringent national vehicle emissions standards than the tier one epa program.
A " toothed " belt that drives an overhead camshaft or camshafts and in some vehicles a water pump.
A spring loaded idler wheel that automatically keeps the timing belt under enough tension to prevent the timing belt from allowing the camshafts it controls to go out of sync.
A transparent plastic film applied to a vehicles windows that reduces visible light transmission and, in some cases, rejects heat by reducing uv and infrared transmissions.
The diameter, in inches, of a tire.
A device used to inflate, or inflate and seal, a collapsible spare or flat tire.
A disposable container of pressurized sealing compound.
Also referred to as " load rating. " a numerical value assigned to a tire by its manufacturer to indicate the tires capability to carry a load the higher the index number, the greater its load capability.
An alphabetic value assigned to a tire by its manufacturer to indicate intended uses, such as " P " for passenger cars and " LT " for light trucks.
An electronic system that measures and displays to the driver the amount of pressure in a vehicles tires.
A numeric value assigned to a tire by its manufacturer to indicate the relationship between the tires sidewall height and its tread width.
Information displayed on the sidewall of a tire that includes its prefix and information about its dimensions, load capacity and speed rating.
An alphanumeric value assigned to a tire by its manufacturer that indicates the maximum speed the tire can safely sustain for a ten minute period.
Sometimes referred to as the " pink slip. " the legal document issued by the state in which the vehicle is purchased that reflects the person or entity registered with the state as its legal owner.
A measurement of an engine's power that indicates how forcefully it can rotate the crankshaft at a given engine speed.
Metal hooks or eyelets, either fixed or removable, that are attached to a structurally sound section of a vehicles frame and used as pickup points for tow cables.
A vehicle with features and equipment that make it well suited for pulling a trailer.
The maximum amount of weight a vehicle is capable of towing according to its manufacturer.
The distance from the center plane of one wheel to the center plane of its opposing wheel.
Also known as " traction control system, " or " TCS. " a safety feature that regulates wheel spin and prevents loss of control under acceleration by ensuring maximum traction and contact between the tires and the road by adjusting brake pressure to one or more wheels, closing the throttle, or reducing the fuel supply to at least one or more cylinders.
A vehicle that is currently owned by the purchaser of a new or used vehicle from a dealer and that is exchanged for the newly purchased vehicle in order to reduce its net price.
A metal device attached to a structurally sound section of a vehicles frame that is used to support a trailer while coupling it to the vehicle.
Trailer hitch attachment points on the body or chassis.
A flat, four way, weatherproof connector located near a vehicles trailer hitch used to complete the circuits for a trailers ground, running, left signal, right signal and brake lights.
A combination transmission and differential or drive axle assembly.
Lubricant used in the transfer case.
Driver selectable transmission settings that change drive ratios and or or shift points for fuel economy or performance.
A final gear ratio for an automatic transmission that has an output speed greater than its input speed, which increases highway fuel economy.
The type of transmission automatic, manual, shiftable automatic or automated manual.
An electronic device used to calculate and display trip information, such as distance traveled, average speed and fuel economy.
A vehicle roof with removable panels on either side of a rigid bar, running from the center of the vehicles a pillar to the center of its B pillar.
Sometimes referred to as a " turbosupercharger. " a device that uses an exhaust driven turbine to force air into an internal combustion engine in order to increase engine power.
Flashing amber colored lights that indicate when a vehicles driver intends to make a turn or lane change.
Also referred to as " turning diameter. " the diameter of the circle made by a vehicle in a full lock three hundred and sixty degree turn.
A remote electronic door lock system that opens the drivers door on the first press and the other doors on the second press.
An electrical socket receiving 12V DC current produced and stored by a vehicles charging system.
Universal joints, which are flexible joints used on drive shafts that are composed of two u shaped yokes that share a common cross shaped member.
Ultra  low emission vehicle standard an emissions standard within the lev program, tighter than the lev standard.
A storage console located under a vehicles seat.
The area of a vehicle that is typically not visible from above and that is exposed to the road.
A label required by the epa that is affixed to the underside of a new vehicles hood to designate its engine family and epa vehicle test group.
A handling characteristic of a vehicle that causes it to turn less sharply than the driver intends because the front wheels are sliding to the outside of the turn.
A company that engages in insurance underwriting. See " underwriting. "
The process of evaluating the risk exposure to a potential insured or class or category of insureds, whether to accept the risk and offer insurance coverage, and the premium to be charged for that coverage.
A wireless device that can be programmed to control all aspects of a vehicles entertainment system.
An electronic device integrated into a key or key fob that controls a vehicles remote operated accessories.
Cloth, leather or synthetic material used to cover a vehicles seats, door panels, arm rests and headrests.
The status of a vehicle loan when the loan amount is greater than the current value of the vehicle.
Flexible tubing used to carry air, fluids, vapors or pressurized gas.
The maximum amount of space between a rocker arm or cam and the part it contacts to actuate a valve.
The number of camshafts used by an engine, as well as their orientation in relation to its valves.
The total number of intake and exhaust valves employed in each individual cylinder of an engine.
Mirrors commonly placed on the underside of a vehicles sun visors intended to be used for personal grooming.
The steering mechanism that converts the rotational motion of a steering wheel to the side to side motion of a lever that is connected to the steering linkage.
An engine feature that allows the lift, timing or duration of the engines valvetrain to be changed dynamically while it is in operation.
A vehicle identification number, or " vin, " is the unique code that is assigned to an individual vehicle by its manufacturer and that distinguishes it from all other vehicles. No two vehicles can have the same vin. Typically, the vin is stamped into a plate or printed on a sticker and affixed to the vehicle in several different places, including inside the engine bay and on the driver's side door jamb. Certain digits in the vin identify a vehicle's attributes, including its final point of assembly, its model year, the manufacturer and, usually, the model of the vehicle. For a complete description of how to read a vehicle's vin, please see making sense of your vin. Modern, seventeen digit vins can be used to access many records relating to a vehicle, including ownership, accident and repair histories. Edmunds does not offer such reports, but our advertiser autocheck does. For more information, please see which vehicle history report is right for you?.
The type of vehicle class, examples of which are large cars, mid size cars, minivans, pickup trucks, small cars, special purpose vehicles, sports utility vehicles, station wagons and vans.
Seats that can direct ambient cabin air through tiny holes in the center section of the seat bottom.
A set of rca plugs located in the rear passenger section of a vehicle.
A color or monochromatic liquid crystal display used for information, navigation or video located in a vehicles dashboard, headliner or headrests.
A wireless device that uses infrared or radio frequency to control a vehicles video system.
A device that produces a video signal to be displayed by a vehicles entertainment system.
A device that circulates coolant through a vehicles cooling system.
A small orifice on a water pump behind and below the exposed end of the shaft.
A measure of the amount of power that an amplifier is capable of producing or a speaker is capable of enduring.
The rubber stripping around a vehicles doors and hatches or their portals.
The adjustment of various components to meet predetermined specifications for camber, caster, toe and ride height.
The assemblies that permit smooth rotation between the wheel hub and spindle.
A decorative metal or plastic disc that obscures a vehicles stamped steel wheels, lug nuts and or or hubs from view.
In drum type brakes, small bore hydraulic cylinders that are fitted between the brake shoes and are actuated when the brakes are applied.
The diameter, in inches, of a vehicles wheel.
Special lugnuts intended to prevent wheel theft that can only be installed or removed with a specific wrench or key.
The nuts that hold a wheel onto its hub.
The distance from a wheels hub mounting surface to the centerline of the wheel. Zero offset means the hub mount surface is even with centerline. Positive offset means the hub mount surface is towards the front or outside of the centerline. Negative offset means the hub mount surface is towards the back behind of the centerline.
The dimensions of a vehicles wheels.
Electrical connections of the system that relay the speed of each wheel to a computer that makes adjustments in brake application to prevent wheels from locking up.
The distance of a wheel from bead to bead.
The distance between the center of a vehicles front axle and the center of its rear axle.
The price at which dealers purchase vehicles from other dealers or from lenders, usually at auction.
A faster, more sensitive oxygen sensor that enables an engine control unit to make changes to the air or fuel ratio more rapidly and precisely than with a conventional sensor.
The width of a vehicle at its widest point.
The manner in which a vehicles windows are operated manual control, power control, one touch, automatic or remote control.
A method of transferring digital data wirelessly through bluetooth or wifi technology.
The groups of wires and connectors that carry electric current through the vehicle.
EMPTYROW
An association of professional engineers in the transportation industry. Sae sets the automotive industry standards for testing, measuring, and designing various aspects of motor vehicles.
A type of title for a motor vehicle where the vehicle has been damaged more than seventy of its pre  damage market value.
A system that sends and receives data, crash information, concierge service and navigation for a motor vehicle using communications satellites.
A type of receiver that receives radio signals that are broadcast from satellites instead of a terrestrial radio tower.
A type of warranty that covers motor vehicle service procedures that are recommended as the cost of ownership over the lifespan of the vehicle.
How far it is from where the steering axis intersects the ground to the line that moves through the center of the tire's contact patch. Sometimes called " steering offset ".
What type of adjustment control is available for the seats manual, power, or power with memory.
The straps and harnesses on passenger seats that are designed to secure the passengers and driver during a collision.
This support is a metal frame covered in upholstered foam that lengthens the seat bottom in a motor vehicle.
Design systems that allow passengers to control various aspects of the seating in a motor vehicle temperature, adjustability, driver comfort, and others.
Pockets on the back of passenger and driver seats that allow for storage of items.
This feature of the seat belts apply tension in order to keep the seat belt from being too tight to the point of injury to the passenger or driver.
How many passengers, including the driver, can safely ride in a motor vehicle.
An emissions reduction system that introduces oxygen to unburnt hydrocarbons in the exhaust stream. This performs basically the same function as an air injection system but it does not rely on an air pump or diverter valve.
When a vehicle is being leased, this payment must be paid to the leasing company in order to hold the vehicle for the lessee.
A type of motor vehicle with four doors and a typical trunk. In the UK, a sedan may be referred to as a saloon. Technically this type of vehicle features a three box configuration, wherein the three boxes are the engine, passenger, and cargo.
A type of headlight system that uses the suspension height sensors to make up and down adjustments to their direction. This can provide visibility for oncoming drivers.
Sometimes referred to as an " SLS filter. " a type of filter that removes contaminants and other particulates from the hydraulic fluid in a self  leveling suspension system.
A leaf spring attached to a vehicle body and the suspension near the middle of the spring. One of the body attachments is a shackle, which gives the spring flexibility to move up and down.
A type of suspension system that is an independent rear suspension. In it, each wheel hub is located by a large, triangular arm.
In some motor vehicles, a type of audio system that can deliver different audio sources to the passengers versus what is being delivered in the front of the cabin.
A tire's aspect ratio, in numerical form. A fifty series tire has an aspect ratio of zero point fifty.
A type of electric motor vehicle that uses a gasoline engine only to recharge the batteries. The gasoline engine does not drive the wheels.
A type of drive belt that drives multiple engine accessories, so named because it winds around multiple pulleys.
When the light is on, it indicates that a vehicle is ready for some type of general vehicle maintenance.
Panels and padding that protect the under  hood components from heat.
Where the shift control mechanism, including levers, paddles, and buttons, is located.
The linkage in a transmission where the motion of the gear shift lever is controlled. In some transmissions including ferrari five speeds and mercedes benz automatic motor vehicles the shift gate is exposed around the shift lever.
The mechanical collections between the operating controls and the transmission of a motor vehicle.
How a driver changes gears, whether by buttons, paddles, or a lever.
A type of transmission that has a feature where the driver can actively select fully automatic or driver controlled shift modes.
How far it is from the driver's side upper door panel to the passenger's side upper door panel.
This device in a motor vehicle converts motion into heat by forcing oil through tubes. This is typical for dampening suspension oscillators, and absorb suspension motion.
To protect the passenger's rib cage, this airbag system deploys during a side collision from the outside of a seat.
The system that, in a collision, will sense whether or not to deploy the side airbags.
Beams used to protect passengers from impacts on the side of a motor vehicle.
Pockets on the side of passenger and driver doors that allow for storage of items.
A type of motor vehicle insurance policy that combines a dollar limit of coverage per property damage, liability coverage, and bodily harm coverage. Similar to " split limit insurance ".
A wide region of flat pavement used in performance and handling tests. Roadholding is one such test.
On the bottom of a motor vehicle, this shield may be attached to guard the undercarriage when there may be a lack of ground clearance.
In the rear windshield of a truck, this small window opens and closes with a sliding maneuver on a system of metal tracks.
Automotive industry slang for an automatic transmission.
As issued by the epa, this is a designation given to new vehicles that have a score higher in air pollution and greenhouse gas emissions that are greater than thirteen.
A smog produced by hydrocarbons and other nox gases in the presence of sunlight.
A type of vehicle window that has been darkened by pigmentation during the production process so that the interior of the vehicle has been shielded.
Hardware used to attach a removable snow plow to the front frame or bumper of a motor vehicle.
When a door is not fully latched, this type of door will slide shut automatically without slamming.
Energy harnessed by sunlight through cells or devices to convert light energy into electricity.
A sun roof that has a solar panel embedded into the glass and can be used to power interior fans to lower cabin temperature in excessive heat conditions.
An extra wheel and tire that is often stored in the vehicle, particularly in the trunk, and can be used when one of the tires experiences a malfunction of some kind.
Cables that distribute electrical charge from ignition coils to the spark plugs.
How many and in what arrangement are the speakers in the motor vehicle's audio system. This may also include the number of channels, for instance, of a subwoofer.
A type of lease that is sometimes called " subsidized lease " or " subvented lease ". It is a lease offered by a manufacturer where the monthly payment is reduced well below what is being offered by leasing companies. The cost is absorbed by the manufacturer.
When a sound system raises or lowers the volume control based upon the speed of the vehicle.
When the speed of the windshield wipers are increased based upon the speed of the vehicle.
A type of rebate or incentive, particularly in cash, given by a dealership to encourage vehicle sales.
A type of motor vehicle insurance policy that combines a dollar limit of coverage per property damage, liability coverage, and bodily harm coverage. The property or injury coverage may have an additional limit depending on the number of persons. Compare against " single limit insurance ".
Airfoils attached to a motor vehicle for air flow over and under it. This decreases lift and increases stability at high speeds. Sometimes they are added purely for aesthetic purposes.
When the end of a motor vehicle dips while accelerating. A squat is caused by the load transfer from the front or nose of the vehicle to the rear suspension. The opposite of dive.
Sometimes called " electronic stability control, " or " esc. " this is a type of safety feature that detects skids and adjusts braking pressure to maintain the direction of the vehicle.
Sometimes called an anti  roll or anti  sway bar. This is a device that connects the sides of a suspension in order to limit the roll in turns.
In a hybrid vehicle, the system stops and then restarts the combustion engine to decrease the time it spends idling and improve fuel economy.
A type of electrical switch that prevents the vehicle starter from being engaged until certain settings and conditions are met.
On a steered wheel, this line intersects upper and lower steering pivots. When the motor vehicle uses strut suspension, the axis is the line through the strut mount on top and the ball joint on the bottom.
A lock that keeps the steering wheel in place until the ignition switch is moved.
This type of damper is a shock absorber on the steering linkage that prevents " kickback " at the steering wheel. Particularly found on off road vehicles or trucks.
A mechanism in steering to convert the motion of the steering wheel to the side to side motion of the lever that is connected to the linkage.
A grouping of features that affect steering behavior camber, caster, linkage arrangement, ride steer, scrub radius, toe in, trail.
This is a component of the steering system to connect the steering shaft to the steering mechanism.
Where the front wheel hubs are attached, the knuckle provides a pivoting component.
The way in which rods and joints connect the steering gearbox to the wheel spindles.
A component in the steering to convert rotational motion of the wheel to the horizontal motion needed to operate the steering linkage.
The part of the steering wheel that controls the position of the steering column as deemed necessary by the driver.
Various controls on the steering wheel that set the entertainment, cruise control, or climate control settings. They are mounted to the steering wheel to provide distractions free convenience.
What type of physical media a sound system of a motor vehicle can play or record, including CD, DVD, hard drive, usb, or flash drive.
How a motor vehicle can resist various irregularities in a road and run a straight line without being corrected by the driver.
How far it is between the centerline of an engine's crankshaft and the centerline of its connecting rod journal. Measured in inches.
The element of a suspension where the reinforced shock absorber is used as one of the wheel's locating members. This is usually solidly bolts the wheel hub to the bottom of the strut.
A type of motor vehicle classification that differs from a compact car by cargo space and passenger room. Subcompact cars are typically void of much of either, which was already limited to begin with in compact vehicles.
A type of loan that a borrower who has low credit may obtain to offset the risk to the lender.
Super  ultra low emission vehicle. A type of vehicle that meets an emissions standard that is more strict than the ulev.
This dashboard instrument displays how fast the engine is rotating, with a redline that indicates that maximum engine speed.
The brake lamps, reverse lights, and rear turn signal lights.
A type of motor vehicle body that has a removable roof and a roll bar behind the seats.
Traction control
Sometimes called " secret warranties, " these bulletins are issued by the manufacturer and indicate problems that affect the normal operation. They can cover known problems and will instruct the owner on how to follow through with repairs. In contrast with recall issues, TBS repairs must first be resolved by the dealership's service department. The repairs may be subject to a fee depending on the warranty of the vehicle.
A GPS system and onboard diagnostics combined system that monitor and map a vehicle. The telematics can pinpoint exactly where a car is and how fast it is moving. The telematics system can then predict how a car is performing at the engine level.
A device that helps control the temperature of an operating engine by moving different air temperatures through the exhaust manifold to the carburetor or throttle body.
The containing unit which houses a regulating valve in the intake manifold.
The type of fuel injection that is located within the throttle body. This in turn feeds fuel to more than one cylinder at a time. This saves money by routing both fuel and air through the intake manifold.
For kickdown linkages, the lubricated pivot points.
This linkage connects the accelerator pedal and the throttle body or carburetor.
The system that controls the amount of air that is fed to the engine.
Parts of the steering linkage that connects the wheel spindles to the pinion rack.
Originally launched in the clean air act of nineteen ninety four, this program by the epa was its first generation emissions reduction program.
Originally launched in the clean air act of nineteen ninety four, this program by the epa was its second generation emissions reduction program.
This belt dries the overhead camshaft.
This spring loaded idler wheel keeps the timing belt taught enough to help the belt keep the camshaft in sync.
An adhesive film that is an overlay on vehicle windows to reduce light and, often, heat on the interior.
In inches, the diameter of the tire.
A product that has inflates a spare or flat tire.
A sealing compound that pressurizes a flat tire.
The numerical value that indicates a tire's capability to carry a load. This is provided by the tire manufacturer.
The abbreviations assigned by tire manufacturers that indicate which types of vehicles are to go with which types of tires. EG " P " for passenger cars and " LT " for light trucks.
The system that monitors the amount of pressure in a tire and displays its outcome to the driver.
The value that indicates the relationship between a tire sidewall height and its tread width.
The various features exhibited by a tire and displayed on the sidewall that include its prefix, profile, dimensions, capacity, and speed rating.
The value that indicates the maximum speed the tire can sustain for a ten minute period.
The type of tires that can be driven on all kinds of surfaces without sacrificing traction.
The type of tires that can be used on trucks or other heavy vehicles.
A type of all  terrain tire that is specifically designed to be driven on mud.
Tires, heavy duty
Tires, all  terrain
Snow or winter tires are a type of tire that can be used on snow and ice. Optimized particularly for winter conditions and temperatures below seven AAAA C forty five AAAA F see our best winter ready vehicles roundup.
Sometimes referred to as the " pink slip. " a document issued by the state where the vehicle has been purchased that bares ownership to the person who registered it.
In a multi  link suspension, this lateral link controls the wheel's direction when the suspension moves up and down.
When opposite wheels are positioned nonparallel to each other.
When a wheel changes direction without being directed by a driver. Sometimes the stress of cornering, accelerating, or braking on smooth and bumpy roads can cause toe steer.
A twisting force that tends to cause rotation, particularly in the motor vehicle's engine.
When power is applied, a car may have a tendency to turn in a particular direction. This is common in front drive vehicles due to reaction forces created in the half shafts that can generate uneven steering forces in the front lines.
Drive off fees
Hooks and or or eyelets that can be attached to a vehicle frame for tow cables.
A type of motor vehicle that is well suited for towing or pulling a trailer.
A maximum weight, including both trailer and cargo, that the vehicle can safely carry.
How far it is from the center plane of one wheel to that on its opposite wheel.
A system which can stop the wheels from spinning out of control when too much power is applied.
When a vehicle owner is exchanged for a new or newly purchased vehicle at a reduced price, wherein the value of the trade is equal to the price reduction.
When a driver begins to brake before entering the turn and then continues to brake as the vehicle is cornering.
A device attached to a sturdy section of the vehicle's frame to support a trailer.
The attachment points that mount the trailer to the chassis.
Connectors that complete circuits for the signal and brake lights.
A type of assembly that combines the transmission and differential axle.
The gearbox that provides speed and torque conversions via the rotating power source to another device. In motor vehicles, the transmission adapts the output of the internal combustion engine to the drive wheels.
The settings that allow a driver to change ratios or shift points to improve fuel economy or performance.
In an automatic transmission, the gear where the output speed is greater than its input speed. This ratio increases highway fuel economy.
The type of motor vehicle transmission that can change gears automatically.
The type of motor vehicle transmission that requires driver input to change gears.
Which kind of transmission is in the motor vehicle automatic, manual, shiftable automatic, or automated manual.
The amount of flexibility in a tire thread that lies between the tread surface and the tire carcass or shell. Snow tires, for instance, have a high amount of tread squirm contrast with racing tires, that have no tread pattern to speak of, and very little squirm.
A trim level, or package, is a variant of a model that is customized by several different features.
A higher level of trim package that allows the buyer to customize and add features to the package. This, of course, drives up the price.
A lower level of trim package that is specified by the manufacturer. These are usually bundled by theme, for instance, technology or weather conditions.
A type of roof on a motor vehicle that has removable panels on either side of a bar that runs the length of the a pillar to the center of its B pillar.
A type of vehicle body frame that consists of rigid tubes welded together.
The curvature on the side of a vehicle body.
A type of supercharger that is powered by an exhaust driven turbine.
The delay between when a vehicle's accelerator is depressed and the turbocharged engine creates a fraction of the power available at the point in the engine's power curve.
When a vehicle transitions from driving straight to driving into a corner.
Lights that flash in the rear headlamp area of the vehicle to tell other drivers that the driver is going to make a turn or lane change.
How wide a circle is its diameter when a vehicle makes a full three hundred and sixty turn.
A system that requires two presses of the remote buttons in order to unlock the driver's side door.
Used on driveshafts, these flexible joints are made up of two u shaped yokes with a cross shaped member shared between them.
A vehicle emissions standard within the lev program that is much tighter than the lev standard. Abbreviation for ultra  low emission vehicle standard.
Beneath the seats, a console that is available to store items and valuables.
A segment of a vehicle that is not viewable from above but is exposed to the road.
This is a label that the epa requires on all new vehicles. It is affixed to the underside of the hood and indicates the engine family for epa testing purposes.
When a vehicle turns less sharply than a driver attempted to turn because the front wheels slide outside of the turn.
The type of company that handles insurance underwriting. See " underwriting. "
How someone to be insured is evaluated for risk, and the assessment of whether or not to offer them coverage, as well as what premium to charge.
Often a monocoque construction of a vehicle body, this construction does not require a separate frame for supporting the mechanical components.
A type of joint that transmits rotary motion when there are two shafts that are not in a straight line. Used to accommodate a large, angular variation between the inputs and outputs. Some joints, such as the hooke joint, will cause the output shaft to speed up and slow down twice for every revolution of the input shaft.
The wireless control device that can be utilized with every portion of the entertainment system in a motor vehicle.
The device in a key or fob that controls the remote operated accessories of a motor vehicle.
The covering stitched and sewn over seats, door panels, arm rests, and head rests. Usually cloth, leather, or synthetic material.
When the loan amount of a vehicle is greater than its current value. A status marker.
The series of flexible tubes that are used to carry air, fluids, vapors and pressurized gas.
How much space is allowed between a rocker arm or cam and the part it contacts to actuate a valve.
A type of high RPM engine condition where the valve lifters release contact with the cam lobes as the springs are not strong enough to overcome the momentum of the various valvetrain components. A valve float can prevent a higher RPM operation, and extended periods of valve float will damage the valvetrain.
How many camshafts are used by an engine and the way that they are oriented in relation to the valves.
Valve lifters press against the lobe in a camshaft and moves up and down as the lobe rotates.
The camshaft, drive components, and various parts that create motion in the valves.
A type of vehicle classification that allows for a greater transport opportunity of carrying people and goods. It may be bigger or smaller than a truck or suv, but bigger than a common car.
Mirrors placed on the back side of the sun visor, or below a flap on the sun visor, that can be used in personal grooming.
A type of steering mechanism that converts steering wheel rotations to side to side movements of a lever in the linkage.
This feature in an engine creates lift in the valvetrain so that it can be changed dynamically while it is in operation.
A unique code number that identifies a vehicle. There is only one vin per vehicle, and it is printed onto a plate or sticker affixed to the vehicle in several locations.
The various classifications of motor vehicles, including large cars, mid size cars, minivans, pickup trucks, small cars, special purpose vehicles, sports utility vehicles, station wagons and vans and others.
Seats with air holes in the seat bottom that can direct cabin air.
Rca or hdmi plugs that are located in the passenger area of the vehicle.
In the vehicle dashboard, headliner, or headrests, monitors that can either relay information or videos for various purposes.
The controls for the video system in the vehicle using the radio frequency.
The device or system that creates a video signal so that video can be fed into the entertainment system.
The valve that sets limits on the boost that is produced in a turbocharger. It allows the exhaust flow to bypass the turbine section in some conditions.
This device helps coolant circulate through the cooling system in a motor vehicle.
How power is measured in an amplifier.
Strips of rubber that are placed around a door or hatch.
Environmental impact
How far it is between the front and rear axles in a motor vehicle.
The ways in which various components may be adjusted to accommodate camber, aster, toe, and ride height.
Various assemblies that create a smooth rotation between the wheel hub and spindle.
The plastic or metal covers that obscure a stamped wheel, lug nuts, and or or hubs.
These hydraulic cylinders are fitted between brake shoes that are actuated when the brakes are applied.
How wide a wheel is from edge to edge.
A wheel bounce that is so violent it leaves the ground. Usually an indication that something in the suspension is wrong, and may be caused by excessive unsprung weight, lack of shock dampers, or bad axle control.
Lugnuts that can prevent wheel theft due to the use of a special wrench or key.
Nuts that are used to attach a wheel to its hub.
How far it is from the hub mounting surface on a wheel to the centerline. Zero offset indicates the hub mount is even with the centerline. Positive means it is toward the front outside. Negative means it is toward the back behind.
Dimensions and details as they pertain to a wheel.
The wiring system that dictates the speed of each wheel to a computer, which then makes adjustments to brake application in order to keep the wheels from locking up.
How far it is on a wheel from bead to bead.
The price that a dealer purchases a vehicle from other dealers or lenders, at auction.
An oxygen sensor that lets an engine control unit make changes to the air or fuel ratio. It has more precision than a conventional sensor.
How wide a vehicle is at its widest point.
The types of controls available on the windows manual, power, one touch, automatic, or remote.
A way to transfer digital data, using bluetooth or wifi technology.
EMPTYROW
The sports car club of america sponsors many racing events in the US it also supplies many of the race officials and workers for road racing by other groups. Most scca events are geared toward participation by scca members.
Short course off road enterprises. Score now stages and promotes off road truck races and events. Season starts in arizona each january, ending in november with the ford tecate score baja one thousand.
Spokane raceway park
Discounts for a good driving record.
May be required in some lease contracts. It is similar to a security deposit on an apartment. This money is held to cover any payments that might be missed. This deposit may or may not be refundable. It is usually equivalent to one month's lease payment.
A two or four door car that can hold four to six people. Includes a trunk in the rear.
An algorithm is a mathematical formula or series of formulas used by an onboard computer or processor to make a decision. In an airbag system, a crash sensor algorithm determines whether the change in velocity indicates an impact of great enough force to require airbag deployment, based on pre  programmed parameters. If the change in velocity is great enough, the processor sends a signal to the device that inflates the airbag.
A sequential fuel injection system times the opening of the injectors to match the opening of the intake valve into each cylinder.
A claim payment.
On a vehicle with automatic transmission, a safety device that prevents the driver from shifting out of park unless the brake pedal is depressed.
Suspension device near each wheel that dampens the up  and down movement of the vehicle. Inside a shock absorber, a piston rides up and down in a cylinder filled with thick fluid or compressed gas. The shock absorber counteracts the up  and down movement allowed by the springs.
A policy written for a period of time that is shorter than usual for that type of coverage.
An inflatable cushion that fills the space between the door and the occupant to prevent head, torso and pelvis injuries when a vehicle is hit from the side. Side airbags may be stored in the door trim panel or the outboard side of the seat they may protect the hip and torso only or also protect the head. A new design, called an inflatable tubular restraint, is stored in the edge of the roof headliner and attached at the base of the a  pillar at the front end and above the doors along the roofline at the other. The device inflates into a somewhat stiff tube that prevents the occupant's head from hitting the side pillar or the window.
Federal safety regulations require that vehicles absorb a certain amount of force when hit from the side. To meet side impact standards, automakers have stiffened side impact beams, which resist intrusion into the passenger compartment, and added safety devices such as side airbags and extra padding, which are designed to push the occupant toward the interior of the vehicle and away from the point of intrusion.
Interest paid or computed only on the original principal of a loan.
An engine with a single overhead cam generally has one intake and one exhaust valve per cylinder the single cam opens and closes both valves. See also overhead cam and dual overhead cam.
The lessee pays the entire lease amount in one payment in exchange for a lower money factor. Single pay advantage was designed to overcome cash customers' objections to monthly payments. Unlike an actual cash purchase, however, the lessee still pays the financing cost.
A type racing tire characteristically very wide with no tread.
Smart airbags don't exist yet, but nhtsa expects automakers and their suppliers to have them perfected sometime after the year two thousand there are many designs, but each contains similar elements including a system of sensors and mathematical algorithms to detect the presence or absence of an occupant in the seat to determine the size, weight and nature of any occupant including whether it is a rear facing infant and determine whether the occupant is an adult, a dog, a bag of groceries or a rear facing infant seat and to determine whether the occupant is too close to the airbag door for safe deployment. A smart system will use that information to decide whether to inflate the airbag in an impact. Later generations of smart airbags will adjust the rate of inflation based on force of impact and size of the occupant.
An engineering organization that shares research information and sets industrywide standards.
A racing event sponsored by the scca, focused on time trial and hill climbs.
Autocross racing event sponsored by the scca.
Converts voltage into an arc that passes between its electrodes the arc ignites the fuel air mixture in the combustion chamber. The mixture explodes, creating power by pushing down the piston.
Usually on the rear of the vehicle, it changes the direction of airflow in order to reduce drag.
Refers to a style of truck which has a square passenger cabin and hatchback, and may be equipped with two or four wheel drive.
A body type designation. Generally a small, powerful car seating only two people.
Two types of sprint cars exist, the first is the usac open wheel cars that feature a upright roll cage. The second is a similar car that has a large wing mounted to the top for stability this is used by the world of outlaws.
An electric motor powered by the battery that turns the crankshaft before the pistons begin operating.
The first section or portion of a race track.
A two or four door passenger car with a cargo area that extends all the way to the rear bumper.
The ratio of the different steering gears. Usually a lower gear means a faster response.
The price of a vehicle found on the sticker attached to one of its windows. Generally, the MSRP.
Started by nascar's founder, bill france, in the forties. Initially meant track cars equipped with showroom parts. Today, few cars use stock parts. Most are built from custom parts, made especially for these race cars, that look like those in showrooms.
The up  and down distance the piston travels within the cylinder. On a traditional internal combustion engine, the piston makes four strokes during the combustion cycle, only one of which is a power stroke. On the power stroke, the piston is near the top of the cylinder, and it has compressed the air and fuel mixture. The spark plug ignites the mixture, and the force of the explosion pushes the piston down into the cylinder, producing the force that turns the crankshaft. The piston returns to the top of the cylinder to expel the exhaust gases on the second, or exhaust, stroke. It slides down to the bottom of the cylinder during the intake stroke, when the valves open to let in air and fuel. The piston rises to the top of the cylinder on the compression stroke to begin the cycle anew. This process repeats hundreds or thousands of times a minute, resulting in the number of crankshaft revolutions per minute at which the crankshaft is rotating.
The car size class one step up from the minicar.
A special lease, subsidized by an auto manufacturer, that features a low money factor rate or high residual value, making the monthly payments extremely attractive. Automakers increasingly are using subvented lease specials instead of rebates to boost sales of particular models.
One day rallies, usually run by a local car club. These may be run on public access roads.
A window type opening in the roof of the vehicle that can tilt or slide open.
Serves the same function as a turbocharger but avoids lag time because it runs off an engine driven pump. Both turbochargers and superchargers are used to produce more power without increasing engine displacement, but neither are particularly fuel efficient and both can require costly maintenance as vehicles age.
A standard piece of equipment of funny cars and top fuel dragsters, this provides more power by blowing a combination of more air and vaporized fuel into the car's engine.
The agreement or policy that an agency will pay defense costs, premiums, and interests.
Springs, shock absorbers, struts, and links used to suspend the frame, body and engine above the wheels.
Engine lubricant not derived from raw petroleum. It has superior engine protection properties but costs as much as five times more than petroleum oil.
The instrument gage that shows engine speed, or revolutions per minute. On a vehicle with manual transmission, the driver can use the tachometer to tell when to upshift or downshift. Also called tach.
A pivoting actuator that opens and closes cylinder intake and exhaust valves.
A loan repaid in a lump sum, including interest, at the end of the loan period.
An amount sometimes charged at the end of a lease.
Protection for the damage of property or bodies of others.
A form of electronic fuel injection in which the injectors are centrally located in a throttle body housing that contains a valve to regulate air flow through the intake manifold. Less efficient and precise than multi  port or sequential fuel injection.
A valve in a fuel injection pump which times the delivery of fuel.
The government issued document that proves ownership of a specific vehicle.
A wheel alignment term that indicates the leading edges of a pair of wheels angle slightly toward each other. Front drive cars are often aligned with slight toe in to compensate for the effects of torque steer, or the tendency of the front wheels to pull to the side under hard acceleration.
A wheel alignment term that indicates the leading edges of a pair of wheels angle slightly away from each other.
The fastest of drag racing vehicles, these have a characteristicly long body and use top fuel which accounts for the tremendous speeds these vehicles can attain.
A measure of twisting force, given in foot pounds abbreviated as lb FT. Or newton meters N M in the case of an automobile, it is the twisting or rotational force the engine exerts on the crankshaft. Vehicle specifications often include the maximum torque an engine produces at a specific number of revolutions. An engine that produces two hundred lb FT. Of torque at three thousand revolutions per minute, or two hundred lb ft. Three thousand RPM, accelerates better at low speeds than an engine that provides two hundred lb ft. Five thousand RPM.
In an automatic transmission, a fluid coupling or electronic control that transmits power from the engine to the wheels. It allows the transmission to remain in gear while the vehicle is stopped. The fluid absorbs power and prevents the engine from stalling.
The tendency of the front wheels on a front drive vehicle to pull to the side under hard acceleration.
A simple, rugged type of suspension spring that twists as it is compressed or stretched.
A vehicle body's resistance to twisting motions.
Any loss of sufficient size where there is nothing left of value of the property.
Pays for towing and labor at the site of an automobile breakdown.
The amount of weight a vehicle can tow behind it.
Vehicle width, measured from the center of one tire's contact patch to the center of the opposite tire's contact patch.
The amount of friction between the tire and the ground.
A system for limiting wheel slip under acceleration, thus maintaining each wheel's contact with the road surface. Traction control systems generally use the anti lock braking system to stop wheel spin and reduce power from one or more engine cylinders when an electronic sensor detects wheel spin.
The amount a dealership credits you for the used vehicle you provide as partial payment for another vehicle. The amount credited is often about five percent below the vehicle's wholesale market value.
Buying a less expensive vehicle than the one currently owned.
Buying a more expensive vehicle than the one currently owned.
A combined transmission and differential on front drive vehicles.
On four wheel drive vehicles, a gearbox that allows power to be delivered to front and rear wheels.
The gearbox that delivers power from the engine crankshaft to the drive axle or drive shaft. Most modern cars have a five speed manual or a four speed automatic transmission.
Pays for car rental expenses if the vehicle is not driveable.
A tire rating consisting of a number followed by two letters, such as 300AB. The number indicates the useful life of the tire, the first letter a, B, or C, a for best, C for worst indicates its traction in wet conditions, and the second letter a, B, or C, a for best, C for worst its resistance to heat buildup.
A fully independent rear suspension featuring a single fiberglass or composite leaf spring.
The level of options or features added to a model ford mustand GT, chrysler lebaron XL.
Also known as the consumer leasing act of nineteen seventy six, this act was designed to protect consumers against inadequate and misleading lease information.
A regularly scheduled maintenance to check normal operation of the vehicle.
An integral piece of the turbocharger, this small fan drives the compressor.
The time it takes the turbocharger to kick in after the driver accelerates the lag results because a turbocharger compressor is spun by exhaust gases in the exhaust manifold.
Device that compresses and forces extra air into the intake manifold to produce extra power. Both turbochargers and superchargers are used to produce more power without increasing engine displacement, but neither are particularly fuel efficient and both can require costly maintenance as vehicles age.
By forcing fuel through the engine, this system allows the car to gather more speed.
A semi  independent rear axle often used on front drive vehicles. The horizontal beam, which connects the two rear wheels, can twist to reduce the effect of one wheel's motion on the other. Less expensive and more compact than fully independent suspension.
Trying to induce a policyholder under false pretense to terminate an existing policy to take a new one.
A vehicle that can only accommodate the driver and one passenger.
A vehicle drivetrain which distributes power to two wheels.
United states auto club, governs most auto racing in north america. An all inclusive organization that includes indy car, sprint cars, silver crown cars, and midgets.
A liability coverage that goes above and beyond the normal coverage.
Brought in if the agency and policyholder don't agree on the amount of loss or damage to a property.
Occurs when the front wheels have lost adhesion or the driver is turning the steering wheel too sharply for the vehicle's speed. In understeer, the front wheels do not follow the steering wheel angle, and the car refuses to turn and pushes ahead. In motorsports, this is called push. The driver can regain traction by reducing speed. Also may be called plow.
A person who is trained to evaluate risks and determines rates for policies based on those risks.
The process of verifying data and approving a loan.
The portion of an advanced premium that has not been used for coverage.
Tire whose tread pattern is designed to get optimum traction only when the tire is mounted to roll in one direction.
Insurance which pays for costs resulting from a hit and run or an accident with an uninsured motorist.
A situation which occurs when the value of your vehicle is lower than the outstanding balance on your vehicle loan. Also called negative equity.
In a V six, V eight or V twelve engine, the cylinders are divided into two banks, each of which is angled away from the other at the top, forming a V typically, this angle is sixty degrees on V six engines and ninety degrees on V eight engines.
A vehicle with six cylinders. The cylinders are divided into two banks, each of which is angled away from the other at the top, forming a V typically, this angle is sixty degrees on V six engines.
A vehicle with eight cylinders. The cylinders are divided into two banks, each of which is angled away from the other at the top, forming a V typically, this angle is ninety degrees on V eight engines.
The valves and camshafts within an engine, and any parts attached to the valves, such as rockers and pushrods, to move them up and down.
Many overhead cam engines, particularly multi  valve models, are described by the total number of intake and exhaust valves in the cylinder head. A twenty four valve V six engine would have four valves per cylinder two intake and two exhaust valves. A sixteen valve V eight engine has only the standard single exhaust and single intake valve for each of its eight cylinders.
A box shaped truck with a forward cab and a cargo area to the back bumper.
The willful physical damage to a property.
A power steering system that varies the amount of assistance it provides according to driving conditions. It provides maximum assistance at low speeds for maneuvers such as turning into a parking space or turning a corner after leaving a stop light. It provides minimum assistance at cruising or highway speeds to provide greater vehicle stability.
A seventeen digit identification number, unique to each vehicle, which includes codes for the manufacturer, year, model, body, and engine specifications.
A term used to describe a policy contract that is free of all legal effect.
The agreement to forego premium payment during a period of disability.
Another name for a closed end lease. A leasing contract in which the residual value, or final value, of the vehicle at the end of the term, has been specified. The lessee is not required to buy the vehicle, or make up any shortfall in its residual value.
The pump that circulates coolant through the engine block, cylinder head and radiator. It is driven by the engine crankshaft.
Normal depreciation of a vehicle under average daily use.
Determined by the diameter and width of the wheel on which the tire is mounted. A fifteen inch wheel has a diameter of fifteen inches. A fifteen X seven wheel has a fifteen inch diameter and a seven inch width.
A mainstay in drag races, this refers to when the front end of car lifts up during a race. It is also known as a wheelie.
The price that the retailer expects to pay for a vehicle.
EMPTYROW
A system that identifies potential parking spaces and helps complete parking maneuvers. All such systems aid in parallel parking and some can also perform pull in and back in parking. All of the systems control steering, while some can also operate the accelerator, brakes and even transmission forward and reverse gear selection.
An assessment of how smoothly a transmission, manual or automatic, changes gears.
Side to side shaking in the suspension or steering.
Suspension component that damps spring oscillations. Shock absorbers work by forcing a fluid through calibrated orifices that limit the rate of movement. Some designs place the fluid under gas pressure to prevent or reduce fluid foaming that can reduce shock absorber efficiency.
The most visible part of the tire when viewing the vehicle from either side. The sidewall contains information about the tire size, grade, and ratings as well as the manufacturer's name.
An engine with one camshaft located in the upper portion of the cylinder head.
Vehicle does not accelerate smoothly or with authority.
An automated manual transmission design that uses a pair of hydraulically actuated clutches to change between odd numbered gears on one shaft and even numbered gears on another. See also dual clutch transmission and direct shift sequential gearbox.
Term used in connection with testing a battery's electrolyte. A specific gravity test is used to determine the battery's state of charge. Sealed maintenance free batteries sometimes have an indicator on top that indicates the state of charge.
The suspension component on which the hubs, wheels and tires mount and rotate. Spindles on the front suspension are turned side to side to steer the vehicle.
A type of shock absorber that also serves as a suspension locating member. Most struts incorporate the suspension spring around their shaft, a design called the macpherson strut. A modified strut mounts the spring separately from the strut.
Engine begins to stall but then kicks back in.
A system of passenger protection air bags that supplement the conventional seat belts. Some modern cars have more than ten airbags to protect occupants in frontal, side and rollover crashes.
An enclosed body on a truck chassis that provides ruggedness and ground clearance with room for up to nine passengers and their cargo. These vehicles usually have fuel economy and ride or handling traits similar to the trucks on which they are based. The chevrolet tahoe suburban, GMC yukon or yukon XL and ford expedition or expedition el are common suvs.
An engine driven compressor that forces additional air into the engine, allowing more fuel to be burned for greater power output.
Engine speeds up and slows down with no change in accelerator position or brake application by the driver.
The combination of tires, wheels, hubs, spindles, control arms, springs, struts, shock absorbers and related parts that support the chassis and body as the vehicle moves down the road.
An advisory bulletin issued by a vehicle manufacturer that describes updated processes and or or parts to address specific problems that may occur on some models. Repairs based on a TSB are covered under a new  car warranty. However, once the factory warranty has expired, TSB repairs are performed at the owner's expense in most cases.
The wireless transmission of useful information to and from a vehicle.
A component that helps regulate engine temperature by controlling the speed at which coolant circulates through the engine.
The maximum size variation between two identical parts. Also, the allowable variation in clearance between two closely fit components.
Twisting force produced by the engine.
The angle at which the wheels on an axle point inward tow in or outward tow out when the steering is pointed straight ahead. Typically measured and adjusted as part of a wheel alignment.
A system that uses the anti lock braking components to limit wheel spin when accelerating on slippery surfaces. More advanced systems can also retard engine spark timing and automatically back off the throttle when necessary to control wheel spin.
Used in front wheel drive and rear engine, rear wheel drive vehicles. Transaxles incorporate both a transmission and a differential into a single unit.
An engine mounted so that its crankshaft is positioned side to side in relation to the vehicle. Transverse engines are typically found in front wheel drive vehicles.
The pattern molded into area of the tire that contacts the road. The tread patterns is designed to optimize traction based on the tire's intended use.
An exhaust driven supercharger that forces additional air into the engine, allowing more fuel to be burned for greater power output.
The vehicle frame that carries all suspension and power train components. Most trucks still use a frame that is separate from the body, but virtually all modern passenger cars use unit body construction in which the body itself serves as the main chassis member.
A mechanical coupler that allows a rotating shaft to transmit power over a range of different angles.
The lower than atmospheric pressure that exists in the intake manifold when the engine is running. On most cars, engine vacuum is used to operate a variety of components and systems.
A hose usually rubber or hard plastic that transfers vacuum to various vehicle components.
An enhanced engine valve train control system used on most modern automobiles that allows the lift, duration or timing any or all of the intake and or or exhaust valves to be changed during engine operation. This technology provides smoother operation, more power, better fuel economy and reduced exhaust emissions.
A seventeen character serial number that is unique to each vehicle. The vin characters are broken down into several sections the first three identify the manufacturer the next five are vehicle attributes check digit, model year and plant codes each have their own single identifier and the final six are the actual sequential number in the vehicle production run.
A dedicated short range communications DSRC radio system that enables cars to receive information from transponders on road signs, traffic signals and other parts of the transportation infrastructure. Such signals could warn of speed limits, traffic congestion, construction zones, underpass height limits and more. V 2I systems are currently under development.
A dedicated short range communications DSRC radio system that enables nearby cars to share information. This technology allows a vehicle to know what is happening several cars ahead, and see events taking place outside the driver's field of view. V 2V systems are currently under development.
A catch all acronym used to describe V 2I, V 2V and other similar communication systems.
The unique seventeen character identification number used to identify modern cars. In addition to the car's serial number, the vin provides a variety of additional information about a vehicle's construction and components.
The measure of a liquid's ability to flow under varying temperature conditions. In automobiles, viscosity most often refers to the weight of motor oil, which is designated using number and letter grades established by the society of automotive engineers. Oils with low numbers such as 5W or 10W flow easily at low temperatures the W stands for winter. Oils with high numbers such as thirty or forty resist thinning at high temperatures. Most modern engines call for multi  grade oils such as 5W thirty that perform well at both low and high temperatures.
The pump that circulates coolant or antifreeze through the engine, radiator and heater.
Vehicle tendency to drift from side to side, requiring constant steering corrections by the driver.
The distance between the centerlines of the front and rear axles of a vehicle.
The hydraulic component in a drum brake assembly that presses the brake shoes against the drum to slow or stop the car.
What the tire is mounted on. Wheels can be made of steel or a light alloy, such as aluminum.
EMPTYROW
A sedan is a fixed roof vehicle with at least four doors or a fixed roof vehicle with two doors that has a minimum of thirty three cubic feet of volume in the rear interior.
Shock absorbers are devices that convert motion to heat by forcing oil through small passages.
A spare tire is an extra wheel and tire stored in the vehicle for use if one of the other tires is damaged.
Struts are a suspension element that include shock absorbers.
Traction control is a system that detects when a wheel is about to lose traction, then reduces engine power and applies the brakes.
The transmission is a gearbox with selectable ratios, matching the RPM of the engine and torque to different vehicle requirements.
The underbody of a car is the area that's not visible from above.
The vehicle identification number is a unique code assigned to every vehicle by the manufacturer.
The water pump circulates coolant throughout the cooling system.
EMPTYROW
EMPTYROW
The starter is an electric motor that uses power from the battery to turn the flywheel and crankshaft and start the engine. The crankshaft holds the connecting rods and pistons, so it requires a healthy starter motor and strong battery to move all that metal and get the engine going a job that's more difficult in cold weather because the engine oil is thicker. Once the engine is running, the starter motor disengages. Starters wear out and electrical connections can come loose or fail, but starter motors often last for the life of a vehicle. If the engine doesn't crank when trying to start it, the starter may not be the culprit. Instead, the battery could be dead or the ignition switch may be broken. If the lights, wipers, stereo and other electrical accessories work but the engine doesn't crank, then the starter could be the cause.
This is the pump that delivers windshield wiper fluid to your windshield.
Windshield wipers are powered by a small electric motor, usually mounted on the firewall or under the cowl the area under the windshield's base. The motor activates linkage that moves the wiper arms back and forth. On vehicles with a rear window wiper, a separate motor powers the one in the rear. Signs that a wiper motor is about to fail include slow or intermittent operation, wipers that will operate at only one speed, or arms that stop in the middle of the windshield when turned off. If your wipers don't work, the fault could also lie with other parts of the wiper system. In the winter, for example, trying to use the wipers when the blades are stuck to the windshield because of ice or snow can blow the fuse for the motor or trip a circuit breaker. Other possible causes are the interior switch that controls the wipers failing, wires in the system being damaged, or the linkage that pushes and pulls the wiper arms breaking. Moving parts in the linkage may also be stuck from corrosion and or or gunk and need lubrication.
The timing belt is a notched rubber belt, sometimes called a gilmer belt. This belt allows the crankshaft to drive the camshaft, which in turn opens and closes the valves. Without this belt, the engine can't run.
The thermostat cuts off the flow of coolant to the radiator when the engine is cold so that heat generated by the engine warms the coolant. Once the coolant warms to a specific level, a valve in the thermostat is supposed to open so that coolant flows through the radiator to cool off before being pumped back through the engine in a continuous cycle. If a thermostat is open all the time, the coolant will constantly be circulating through the radiator and the engine will take longer to warm up as a result. If a thermostat is stuck in the closed position, the engine could overheat because coolant isn't circulating through the radiator and shedding some heat. In either case, the thermostat should be replaced. Even if the thermostat opens and closes when it's supposed to, the housing gasket could develop a leak and need replacing. The thermostat is typically located where the upper radiator hose enters the engine. Thermostat replacement usually isn't listed in vehicle maintenance schedules, and some mechanics advise that as long as it's working there's no need to replace it. On the other hand, if the coolant is being flushed at, say, one hundred thousand miles, or radiator hoses are being replaced, many repair shops will suggest replacing the thermostat at the same time.
The throttle body is a housing with a valve that regulates airflow into an engine's intake manifold. The throttle body resembles the base of a carburetor, and some low cost fuel injection systems had one or two injectors inside the throttle body instead of an injector for each cylinder, and that was where air mixed with fuel. On multi  point injection systems, with one or more injectors for each cylinder, only air passes through the throttle body. Many drivers think wide open throttle means flooring the gas pedal. That's correct, but flooring the pedal opens a throttle blade as wide as it can go, allowing more air into the engine. When more air goes in, more gas or diesel goes into the engine with it, producing more power and speed. Dirt can build up in a throttle body and cause sluggish acceleration, hard starting or stalling, so the body needs to be cleaned as part of fuel system maintenance.
The throttle position sensor monitors how far open the throttle valve or blade is open, which is determined by how far down the accelerator pedal has been pushed. The throttle position controls the amount of air that flows into an engine's intake manifold when it's opened wide more air flows in when it's nearly closed, little air flows in. The position of the throttle and how quickly it's opening or closing is transmitted to the engine control module, and that information is among the factors the computer uses to decide how much fuel is injected into the engine and the spark timing. The TPS is usually mounted on the throttle body the housing that contains the throttle valve. When a TPS malfunctions it can trigger a check engine warning light or cause the engine to idle roughly, surge, hesitate or stall because the engine control module doesn't know what the throttle position is and can't correctly set the fuel mixture or ignition timing.
The pumping of an engine's pistons creates a vacuum in the cylinders, and that vacuum is filled by air drawn in through the intake system. If leaks develop in hoses or engine parts downstream from the air intake, that means additional air is going into the engine that's not being read by the engine computer, which determines how much fuel to inject into the cylinders based on the amount of air coming in. The result is an incorrect air fuel mixture than can create a number of problems, such as hard starting, a rough idle, hesitation, misfiring or a drop in fuel economy issues that could, without proper diagnosis, seem to have other causes, such as incorrect ignition timing or fouled spark plugs. A vacuum leak can trigger a check engine light because the fuel system is running too lean, meaning it has a greater mix of air than is ideal. Vacuum leaks can develop in many locations, including the intake manifold, throttle body evaporative emissions system, power brake booster, and several other places, because some vehicles have a multitude of vacuum hoses.
The transmission serves three main roles it connects and disconnects the motor from the rest of the drivetrain drive shafts, axles, wheels. It provides gearing that allows the engine's limited range of operation to take the car from a standstill to high speeds. It allows the driver to change direction from forward to backward. Additionally, transmissions can serve to hold the car in place when it's off, either in the park setting automatics or by remaining in gear manuals. Thanks to tech advancements for both transmissions and lubricants, many of today's transmissions require less maintenance, or less frequent maintenance, than they used to. See more detail in the automatic transmission and manual transmission entries.
Spark plugs, which screw into the top of an engine's cylinders, create the electric spark required to ignite the compressed air fuel mixture in gas powered engines. The right type of plug and the size of the gap between the electrodes at the tip are specified by the automaker, and using the right ones are crucial to proper performance. A fouled, worn or loose plug can cause rough running or abnormal noises. Longer replacement intervals, typically around one hundred thousand miles in newer cars, have simplified plug maintenance, but they've also led manufacturers to justify making them more labor intensive and expensive than ever to replace.
Officially a macpherson strut, named after its creator, a strut is a type of shock absorber that has a structural role in a vehicle's suspension. The strut includes a shock absorber element, but it also serves to position the wheels, a task handled by control arms in a conventional suspension design that employs dedicated shock absorbers. Like shocks, struts can lose their ability to damp bounces and compromise the car's roadholding and braking. Mechanics might spot oil leaking from the strut, which means the component is on its way out and should be replaced. Uneven tire wear is another potential sign that the shock absorber component is failing. Because of their size and complexity, struts are more expensive to replace than shock absorbers.
On many vehicles with strut type suspension designs, the front struts which include the springs and shock absorbers are mounted with bearings or bearing plates that serve as the upper pivot points for the steering. The bearings can wear out from long term use, corrosion, impact or collision damage, and other factors. When they do, they often make knocking or clunking noises over bumps or in turns, or the steering becomes stiff or snaps back toward center when the driver lets go of the steering wheel. Bad strut bearings can also cause alignment issues and uneven tire wear. Many mechanics recommend that strut bearings be replaced whenever struts are replaced so worn bearings don't affect suspension or steering performance. Some replacement parts come as a complete assembly with struts, springs, bearing plates and mounting hardware. In addition, strut assemblies should be replaced in pairs, not just one side at a time, and the vehicle should also get a wheel alignment after the struts and or or bearing plates are replaced. One advantage of buying a complete strut assembly instead of individual parts is that with the complete kit, removing and installing the strut assembly doesn't require a spring compressor, a tool that can cause serious injury when not used properly.
Sway bar end links are the attachment points between a sway bar and suspension members. Also known as a stabilizer bar or anti  roll bar, the sway bar connects suspension components on either side of the car to minimize body leaning in turns. Though the sway bars themselves are made of long lasting, durable steel, the end links incorporate bushings that can fail with age and wear. That can introduce play that causes noise, compromises the sway bar's effectiveness and may lead to separation. Inboard sway bar bushings, which serve as a hinge, also must be maintained properly.
Tie rods connect either end of the steering rack to the steering knuckles on which the front wheels pivot when the steering wheel is turned. The tie rod has two sections threaded together, so their length can be adjusted and the front wheels aligned. The outer section, typically called the tie rod end, is most susceptible to wear and failure. Though tie rod ends historically required regular lubrication, they are among many aspects of a modern vehicle's chassis that are now maintenance free. When they fail, however, they can throw off the car's alignment, cause premature tire wear or, in the worst cases, separate and cause a loss of control.
On four wheel drive vehicles, the transfer case contains gears that connect a second drive shaft to send power to all four wheels instead of just the front or rear ones. The transfer case on some vehicles, particularly those intended for off road use, are engaged by a separate gear lever or electric buttons or a rotary switch on the dashboard. Most off road 4WD vehicles have transfer case positions for rear wheel drive 4WD high, for on road operation and 4WD low, for off road and demanding on road use. All  wheel drive vehicles often don't have a transfer case lever or switch instead, awd engages or disengages automatically based on driving conditions. Some transfer cases have the ability to send all the power to either the front or rear when needed.
Depending on the vehicle, proper wheel alignment involves setting the camber inward or outward tilt of the wheels when looking head on, caster wheel tilt front or back looking from the side and toe in or toe out looking down at the wheels from above. The adjustments are measured in fractions of an inch and require specialized alignment equipment. Wheel alignment isn't usually listed by vehicle manufacturers on the recommended maintenance schedule, so how often it should be done is open ended. If your vehicle tracks as straight as an arrow, you're wheels likely are properly aligned. Even so, it's a good idea to have your alignment checked annually, such as when you have your tires rotated.
Wheels turning at eight hundred revolutions per mile can generate a lot of friction and heat. Roller type or ball bearings packed in grease inside all four wheel hubs allow wheels to spin freely without generating excessive heat while supporting the weight of the vehicle. In addition, by reducing friction they improve fuel economy. Most wheel bearings are sealed and don't need regular maintenance, but some need fresh grease periodically. They typically last more than one hundred thousand miles. Bearings can also be damaged by hitting potholes or curbs or in an accident. They can also fail, often because seals wear out and allow grease to escape and dirt and moisture to enter. When they do fail, they often make a roaring or rumbling noise. On vehicles with sealed bearings, the entire hub assembly must be replaced when the bearings fail.
The shock is a suspension component that controls the up  and down motion of a vehicle's wheels. Though the devices provide some shock absorption, the job of absorbing shocks is handled mostly by the springs. More accurately called dampers, shocks damp excessive motion, keeping the vehicle's body from bouncing down the road. Cars with worn out shock absorbers illustrate what the devices are meant to do, because they tend to bounce continuously. Worn out shocks compromise a car's roadholding and braking. The bounce test is a time honored method of checking shock absorber health, but mechanics might also spot oil leaking from the shock, which means the component is starting to fail and should be replaced. Uneven tire wear is another sign of shock failure.
The steering gearbox contains the gears that transmit the driver's steering inputs to the steering linkage that turns the wheels, and it multiplies the driver's steering changes so that the front wheels move more than the steering wheel. Most car based vehicles use rack and pinion steering in which the steering wheel turns a pinion gear that moves on a rack to turn the front wheels. Others use recirculating ball systems in which ball bearings are mounted on a worm type steering gear. Though steering gears often last for the life of a vehicle, the gearbox can develop leaks or the gearbox case can crack. Among the signs that a steering gearbox needs repair or replacement are increased or jerky steering effort, and the steering becoming loose and showing excessive play.
Part of a rack and pinion steering system, the rack is a bar parallel to the front axle that moves left or right when the steering wheel is turned, aiming the front wheels in the correct direction. The pinion is a small gear at the end of the vehicle's steering column that engages the rack. Though steering racks are hearty, they sometimes require replacement. Signs of a failing rack include difficulty turning the steering wheel in one direction but not the other, jerkiness of motion or noises.
EMPTYROW
Establishments, which may or may not sell products over the counter, for which gasoline accounts for more than fifty percent of total sales. Examples include BP, shell and exxon.
Standard industrial classification codes. The standard statistical classification codes underlying all establishment based federal economic statistics classified by industry. Largely replaced by the naics codes system in one thousand nine hundred and ninety seven 
Stock keeping unit. Refers to each single item carried by a retailer. Every color, style and item having its own vendor or vendee number has its own sku.
Establishments specializing in one facet of automotive repair, such as transmission, ignition or exhaust. The outlet's specialty accounts for more than fifty percent of total sales receipts.
Retail outlets, such as auto parts stores, that restrict its appeal to a specific type of merchandise. These outlets generally offer wider assortments in a narrower range than department, discount or variety stores.
Specialty stores selling high performance automotive products.
Traditional auto care market distribution process where products flow from the manufacturer to the warehouse distributor to the jobber to the service outlet.
Automotive parts manufacturers that supply final equipment directly to vehicle manufacturers. Increasingly, tier one suppliers are becoming producers of major subassemblies and modular components that can be installed into a vehicle as a unit, such as a complete drivetrain.
Manufacturers that produce components for tier one suppliers.
Manufacturers that supply raw materials used in the production of components.
Stores that generate more than fifty percent of their sales from automotive tires.
Specialists in providing the tools and equipment needed to perform repair and maintenance of motor vehicles.
Cars and trucks manufactured in the united states with a foreign nameplate.
Companies that manufacture or distribute interior and exterior fabrics and the associated hardware and products used in the repair or restoration of motor vehicles, boats and aircrafts.
Firms involved in the repair or accessorization of products primarily from the trim goods category, such as carpet, vinyl, leather, fabrics, thread and zippers.
Firms primarily involved in the retailing of new commercial motor vehicles. These firms also provide service for those vehicles after the sale.
Firms primarily involved in the distribution of petroleum products and the diagnosis, repair or maintenance of commercially operated motor vehicles.
Distribution process where products flow from the manufacturer to the warehouse distributor to the service outlet directly, eliminating the jobber.
Firms that sell more than fifty percent of their products to repair shops and more than fifty percent of their purchases are from manufacturers.
Also known as bar code. Numbers printed on product package that can be electronically scanned for information such as brand, manufacturer and price.
Establishments that sell a variety of goods at low prices, such as apparel, accessories, gift items, stationery, toiletries, light hardware, toys and candy EG, ben franklin.
A method of grouping vehicles according to their gross vehicle weight. Classes range from one to eight. See light duty vehicles, medium duty vehicles and heavy duty vehicles for examples.
A distributor operating trucks stocked with fast moving parts and tools, usually calling on service stations, garages and car dealers.
EMPTYROW
EMPTYROW
A record book used to keep track of when service is performed on a vehicle. This is sometimes required in order for your car's warranty to remain valid and may increase the value of a used car.
A compressor that delivers more air into the engine's interior. The result is an increase in power but a decrease in fuel efficiency.
How much air is in a vehicle's tires, expressed in pounds per square inch. Some cars have a monitoring system that alerts you to low pressure.
This safety feature minimizes wheel spin and ensures good traction between the tires and the road when a vehicle accelerates. It activates when there is a mismatch between engine torque and throttle input.
The internal system that controls the power from the engine and translates it into movement via a manual or automatic shifting mechanism. The term is often used to refer to the gearbox, which we explained above.
The version of a vehicle model that comes equipped with certain features. Higher trim levels come with more or better features at a higher price, while lower level trim comes with more basic features at a lower overall cost.
Similar to a supercharger, this device increases vehicle power with the help of an exhaust driven turbine.
Vehicles with a drivetrain that allows two wheels to be driven, and receive power and torque from the engine, simultaneously.
A unique number known as the vehicle identification number that sets a vehicle apart as unique. Digits within the number describe various aspects of the vehicle.
EMPTYROW
Particular management of the engine, aimed at reducing consumption, allowing to turn off the engine when the vehicle is stopped in neutral or when the brake is activated, and to start again instantaneously upon the driver's request. Note the system is active only provided that the engine is at its normal temperature of operation and that the battery charge is balanced or positive.
Concept of a multi purpose vehicle, often top of the range, of sporty appearance and adventurous, generally with four driving wheels
Like the tumble, the swirl is caused at the admission, with the goal of homogenizing the air gasoline mixture in order to optimize the output of combustion. The swirl is the rotation movement of gases contained without the cylinder, around its axis. Specialists characterize this movement by the number of swirls, which is the ratio of the speed of rotation of the gases to the engine speed.
This is the set of operations of reprocessing a vehicle out of use, recovering at the same time matter valorization also called recycling and energy valorization, IE use as a fuel or for energy production by any other means.
Wireless application protocol.
EMPTYROW
Is a US classification for passenger vehicle emissions. The classification is based on producing ninety fewer emissions than the average gasoline powered vehicle. One the sulev standard is stricter than the standard for lev low emission vehicle and ulev ultra  low emission vehicle, however not as strict as pzev partial zero emissions vehicle which meets the sulev standard for tailpipe emissions, but has zero instead of reduced evaporative emissions. Two japan also offers an su lev classification, for vehicles that show a seventy five percent reduction in emissions vis AAA vis the two thousand five emissions standards.
Is a car classification that combines elements of road going passenger cars with features from off road vehicles, such as raised ground clearance and four wheel drive.
Is typically but not necessarily a secondary function of the electronic stability control esc on production motor vehicles, designed to prevent loss of traction IE, wheelspin of the driven road wheels. TCS is activated when throttle input and engine power and torque transfer are mismatched to the road surface conditions.
Are designed to reduce the energy loss as a tire rolls, decreasing the required rolling effort and in the case of automotive applications, improving vehicle fuel efficiency as approximately five fifteen of the fuel consumed by a typical gas car may be used to overcome rolling resistance.
Colloquially known as turbo, is a turbine driven, forced induction device that increases an internal combustion engine's power output by forcing extra compressed air into the combustion chamber. This improvement over a naturally aspirated engine's power output is because the compressor can force more air and proportionately more fuel into the combustion chamber than atmospheric pressure and for that matter, ram air intakes alone.
Is a motor vehicle that emits extremely low levels of motor vehicle emissions compared to other vehicles. In some jurisdictions it is defined in law low and ultra low emission vehicles may be given tax or other advantages, one while high emission vehicles may suffer restrictions or additional taxation is a six cylinder piston engine where the cylinders share a common crankshaft and are arranged in a V configuration.
Is an eight cylinder piston engine in which two banks of four cylinders share a common crankshaft and are arranged in a V configuration.
EMPTYROW
Specialty equipment market association
Sequential manual gearbox. Also referred to as " DSG, " " direct shift gearbox " and " automated manual transmission. "
Search results page a list of vehicle on a web site after preforming a search
Sport utility vehicle a vehicle classification that combine elements of road going passenger cars with features from off road vehicles
Traction control system, or " TCS. " a safety feature that regulates wheel spin and prevents loss of control under acceleration by ensuring maximum traction and contact between the tires and the road
Vehicle description page this represents a single vehicle, listing all features, pricing, mileage, and options for that single vehicle.
A vehicle identification number, or " vin, " is the unique code that is assigned to an individual vehicle by its manufacturer and that distinguishes it from all other vehicles.
Vehicle listing page
Vehicle results page
EMPTYROW
EMPTYROW
A safety vent is also referred to more commonly as a vent cap, and is designed to vent excess hydrogen gas from the inside of a battery in the event of buildup in gas volume or pressure.
The secondary angles include numerous other adjustments other than caster, camber and toe, such as steering axis inclination, included angle, max turns, track width, etcetera
Separators are comprised of paper, plastic or fiber batting and are used to separate the negative and positive plates within a battery cell, such that they are not permitted to touch one another.
Setback is a measurement referencing the wheels to a line placed perpendicular to the vehicle centerline. This line would be parallel to a line drawn through the centers of the spindle. If a vehicle has setback, one front tire or wheel assembly is farther back from this imaginary reference line across the front of the vehicle than the other.
A component using friction to dampen and control a vehicle's suspension up and down movement. Modern shocks are of the hydraulic type, using an oil to dissipate the heat of friction to the outside air. They contribute to your vehicle's ride quality.
A short circuit refers to the direct and generally unintended connection of a battery negative and positive terminal using an electrical conductor. Short circuiting a battery may result in rapid battery discharge, causing formation of hydrogen gas, sparks, heat and a generally dangerous situation.
A shorted cell refers to a condition where one or more negative plates within a cell come in contact with the positive plates. This condition generally results in a zero voltage or dead cell.
Adjustable connecting sleeves attaching to the outer tie rods allow for directional changes from the pitman arm to be transmitted equally to both sides, making them turn in unison.
Sli is an abbreviation for starting, lighting and ignition, and is the designation of most automotive batteries.
The snaking effect is a term experienced while towing a travel trailer. In order to move the hitched vehicle in one direction, you must steer the vehicle in the other direction.
Almost all cars are available in a no  cost basic, solid color. The most common options are white, red, blue or black.
A device containing two electrodes across which electricity jumps to produce a spark to fire the fuel charge. The center electrode is insulated from the spark plug shell by means of a molded insulator resembling porcelain. The side electrode protrudes from the bottom edge of the spark plug shell and is so positioned that there is a gap between it and the center electrode.
Timing of ignition spark.
Also known as custom paints. Examples include, metallic finish paints or chameleon paints. There are many other types of specialty paints that a professional paint shop may be able to recommend to you.
A starting battery is a specific construction and design, where a large amount of momentary current is permitted to be drawn from the battery for starting purposes without consequential damage to the battery.
State of charge refers to the condition of a battery with respect to its design voltage and capacity.
A self contained unit of the magnetic pickup, consisting of a permanent magnet, an inductive winding, and the pickup core, the stator can be a disc shaped pole piece with stator tooth or a simple pole piece. The fixed electrical windings on a magneto, alternator, or generator. It turns within the rotor.
Arms, either bolted to, or forged as an integral part of the steering knuckles. They transmit the steering force from tie rod to the knuckles, thus causing the wheels to pivot. Also called tie rod arm.
The angle between the centerline of the steering axis and vertical line from center contact area of the tire as viewed from the front. Sai is typically not adjustable, but deviations from specification can indicate vehicle damage. A maximum variation side to side of AA AA 1.0AAAA may also indicate vehicle damage. This topic is covered in detailed charts later.
A shaft connecting the steering wheel to the steering gear assembly. Also called the steering shaft.
The mechanism that allows the driver to guide the vehicle down the road and turn the wheels as he desires. The system includes the steering wheel, steering column, steering gear, linkages, and the front wheel supports.
The steering wheel is the part of the steering system that is manipulated by the driver the rest of the steering system responds to such driver inputs.
A product specifically designed to stop leaks in air conditioning system.
Struts are part of your vehicle's suspension, and do the same job as a shock absorber. A vehicle will either have struts or shock absorbers, or a combination of both IE struts in the front, and shock absorbers in the rear. They regulate how much your vehicle can move up and down, and keeps the tires in contact with the road surface after going over a bump.
Strut mounts connect the vehicle's suspension system to the vehicle body, and are located between the strut and the chassis at the upper strut attachment point. For the front fitting applications, the mount includes a bearing that serves as a steering pivot. Because these are load bearing, worn strut mounts can affect a vehicle's handling and safety.
Sulfation is a condition where lead sulfate crystals form in a battery, typically through a prolonged discharge condition. The lead sulfate precipitates to the bottom of the case, where it impedes electrical flow through the battery.
Surface charge is the indicated state of voltage with a battery sitting at equilibrium and is not an indicator of the true condition of the battery. Before testing, it is necessary to remove the surface charge through momentary loading.
A system that cushions the passenger compartment of the vehicle from the bumps and shocks caused by the wheels moving over irregular road surfaces. Includes springs, shock absorbers, steering linkage, upper and lower control arms, torsion bars, and stabilizers.
Evacuating a refrigeration system serves two primary objectives to remove noncondensables and to dehydrate the air conditioning system remove water vapor. If noncondensables such as air are not removed, the system will operate at higher than normal condensing pressures. If water vapor is not removed, it can cause a freeze at the expansion device, causing a block in the refrigeration process.
A driver operated device used to cycle the clutch to control the rate of refrigerant flow as a means of temperature control. Also known as a temperature sensitive component that is located in a housing at the coolant outlet of the engine that restricts coolant flow to the radiator to maintain the desired engine operating temperature.
A component of the refrigeration system that regulates the rate of flow of refrigerant in the evaporator, as the refrigerant enters the TXV, as a high pressured liquid, it expands reducing its pressure to become a low pressure liquid. It then is able to enter the evaporator.
Terminal type refers to the design of the attachment point of the battery to the electrical system. Most automotive batteries are either a post style terminal or a threaded side terminal, however some today use a threaded design that resembles a flag.
A thermistor is a temperature compensating resistor and generally refers to the charge level compensation in an alternator regulator that is used to replenish the battery.
The body throttle gasket is the seal the keeps outside air from entering the space between the intake manifold and the throttle body.
The device that controls the vacuum created in the venturi of the carburetor. The greater the vacuum, the richer the fuel air mixture. The throttle enables the engine to run on a richer mixture and produce more power for high speed driving.
A rod, or rods, connecting the steering arms together. It links the pitman arm and the idler arm to the steering knuckle arms. When the tie rod is moved, the wheels pivot.
A steering device present on some very early automobiles before the steering wheel became the only car steering utility.
Toe relates to the difference in the distance between the front of the tires and the rear of the tires on the same axle, or to the vehicle centerline. Toe in, or positive toe, is defined as the front of the tires being closer together than the rear of the tires. Toe out, or negative toe, is when the rear of the tires are closer together than the front of the tires.
When the vehicle negotiates a curve, the inner wheel turns more sharply and while the wheels remain in this position, a condition of toe out exists.
A force that turns or tends to turn an object.
The measurement of the center of tire to center of tire or outer edge to outer edge.
A piece of thin compressible material such as cork, rubber, or soft metal, placed between two mating surfaces to form a seal.
A small transmission used on four wheel drive vehicles to transfer engine torque to the front and or or rear axles.
Transmission filters prolong the life of the transmission and its fluid by trapping potentially harmful particles and abrasives. A properly functioning filter ensures that transmission fluid is free from contaminants.
Transmission gasket is a mechanical seal between the transmission oil pan and the transmission itself.
Electronic device commonly used for amplification. A small semiconductor electronic component, with no moving parts, that functions as a switch, amplifier, or detector by controlling the flow of current.
A trickle charge is a steady battery charger current that does not vary with the battery state of charge. Trickle charges are considered to be old technology and have largely given way to automatic battery maintainers.
The intent of a tune up is to obtain the maximum performance and economy of an engine with the lowest possible exhaust emissions so that the vehicle engine will meet the manufacturer's specifications. It involves checking the components of the ignition, fuel, and emmission system and cleaning, adjusting, or replacing them. Tuneups should be performed according to the recommendation of each manufacturer.
The turning radius or turning circle of a vehicle is the diameter of the smallest circular turn IE U turn that the vehicle is capable of making.
The twist beam rear suspension, also known as torsion beam axle is a type of automobile suspension based on a large H or C shaped member. The front of the H attaches to the body via rubber bushings, and the rear of the H carries each stub axle assembly, on each side of the car. The cross beam of the H holds the two trailing arms together, and provides the roll stiffness of the suspension, by twisting as the two trailing arms move vertically, relative to each other.
Two part paint products are those that need activators or hardeners to stimulate chemical bonding between the paint and the car's surface, which is commonly known as drying or evaporating. Without activators, two part paints have longer shelf life because they do not dry by themselves. They are also nonporous and weatherproof. You can apply a two thousand primer on your car and leave it without having to worry about the rusting of your sheet metal.
Undercoat finishes are referred to as primers. Car paint primers are usually available in either gray or black and are used to prime the surface of the vehicle and make it ready for painting. Primer is designed to help car paint better adhere to the vehicle by creating a binding layer that can bond to paint easier and more consistently than bare metal.Undercoat finishes.
The tendency for a vehicle, when negotiating a corner, to turn less sharply than the driver intends.
A coupling between rotating shafts set at an angle to one another, allowing for rotation in three planeSIE the shaft and two wheels.
These paints are known for their heavy body base and they last longer than enamel or lacquer based paints. Urethane paints are usually applied on engine parts and those parts which receive high temperature.
The valve cover is a metal cover that is found on very top of the engine. The valve cover is attached to the engine by a gasket made of rubber or cork.
Valve stem seals are engineered to allow a small amount of oil to pass through their oil metering to lubricate the valve stem interface of an engine.
A device mounted in the rim or inner tube to provide a method of increasing or decreasing air pressure inside a tire.
Any opening serving as an outlet or inlet for air.
The circulation of flow of air through openings the direction of ambient cabin air through openings to other sections of the vehicle.
Voltage is a measure of electrical pressure. All batteries are rated in volts DC direct current.
Voltage delay is the time required after an electrical load is applied for a battery to deliver the requisite voltage.
Voltage depression is an unexpected drop in battery voltage below anticipated values during the discharge of a battery.
A voltage regulator is a device that controls the charging output of an alternator or generator so as to maintain charge volts within defined parameters.
A volt meter is a device that measures and indicates the voltage within an electrical system or electrical circuit.
Due to the rise of environmental concerns, the water based acrylics, waterborne and urethane paints are developing faster. You can apply waterborne enamels on primers or bare metal or present coatings. For diy car finishers, these paints are safe and widely known option to work from personal garage.
Treated for moisture repellency. These types of covers will repel most of the water yet allow air to circulate, preventing condensation. Most have ultraviolet screens woven into the mesh to help them withstand sunlight degradation and are usually mildew resistant.
Waterproof car covers are usually plastic film or a plastic coated fabric and will keep the rain off your car, but will also trap condensation between the cover and your car. The plastic type of car cover is useful if you store your car over the winter in a garage and use a flannel cloth cover against the surface and the plastic one as an outer protective shield.
Fabric sheds water as soon as it hits the car cover, leaving your vehicle dry.
A pipe that brings water into a machine or a room.
The water pump gasket is a simple sheet comprised of gasket paper, rubber, silicone, metal, felt, and fiberglass or plastic polymer. It fills the gap between the engine and the water pump in your vehicle.
A type of steering gear that looks like a bolt and nut, but the sector of this type looks like a gear instead of a nut. The teeth of the sector are machined in an arc or curve to look like a section of the gear.
A wheel is a round object that is intended to rotate on a bearing. Wheels, in conjunction with axles, allow heavy objects to be moved easily moved or rolled.
The wheelbase of a vehicle equals the distance between its front and rear wheels. At equilibrium, the total torque of the forces acting on a vehicle is zero.
EMPTYROW
Semi autonomous typically refers to vehicles that largely operate on their own and without normal levels of driver input, they include automated features like adaptive cruise control or lane keeping technology.
Abbreviation for super  handling all  wheel drive, a proprietary system developed by honda and used in various acura vehicles like the TL, MDX, and upcoming acura NSX.
A smart key is any car key that can lock, unlock, and sometimes start a car's engine remotely.
Like its name suggest, a spark plug is a small device used to deliver an electrical spark to the combustion chamber of an engine.
Short for speedometer which is a meter or gage used to measure how fast your vehicle is traveling. Most speedometers are measured in miles per hour and kilometers per hour.
Any car equipped with a start stop system has the ability to automatically shut down its engine when idling and start back up again when the driver takes their foot off the brake. It is often a feature in hybrids and is designed to help increase fuel economy.
Short for sport utility vehicle.
An air compressor designed to further increase pressure, temperature, and density of air supplied to a car's engine. Higher air pressure in an engine, along with matching increased fuel flow can greatly increase engine performance.
Tachometers are typically placed in a car's instrument cluster and measure RPMS revolutions per minute, which is the number of times an engine's central crankshaft rotates.
Similar to what you'd find on a smartphone, a touch screen is any interactive screen that provides some sort of tactile feedback when pressed. Touch screens in automobiles are typically used for in  car entertainment and navigation systems.
Torque is the pulling power of a vehicle, which is often crucial for trucks hauling heavy loads. It's the twisting force created inside an engine by all those rotating parts. Generally, cars with higher levels of torque also accelerate faster, which is why sports cars typically have greater torque levels. Torque is measured in pound feet LB FT.
Often found in both four wheel drive and all  wheel drive vehicles, a transfer case receives power from the transmission and sends it to both the front and rear axles.
A car's transmission transfers power from the engine or motor to a drive mechanism, often a live axle, through a series of gears and clutch.
Method of increasing air pressure, temperature, and density of air delivered to an engine also known as forced induction. A turbocharger is powered by a car's exhaust or sometimes by electricity.
Driving characteristic where a car doesn't turn enough understeers while driving, typically at high speeds. Understeer is commonly associated with front wheel drive cars
A V type engine consisting of two banks of three cylinders.
A V type engine consisting of two banks of four cylinders, often found in trucks, luxury, and sports cars.
A V ten is an engine with ten cylinders arranged in two rows of five some examples include the audi R eight, lamborghini sesto elemento, and the dodge viper.
A V twelve is any engine consisting of twelve cylinders arranged in two rows of six cylinders. V 12S are largely uncommon and typically found in flagship sedans BMW seven series, audi A eight, mercedes benz S class and outlandish exotics like the enzo, pagani zonga, and mclaren you know, back when mclaren wasn't getting carried away with letters and numbers.
A V sixteen engine is any engine with sixteen cylinders arranged in the shape of a V with two banks consisting of eight cylinders each. Modern V 16S are rare and have typically been restricted to concept cars and limited run vehicles from smaller boutique manufacturers.
Wheelbase is simply the distance between the centers of both the front and rear wheels.
Cars with built in Wi Fi allow a specific number of devices to be connected to the network and for data to be transmitted and received wirelessly to those devices.
EMPTYROW
EMPTYROW
A safety belt securely fastens a person to a car seat to prevent falling or injury. The law requires using your seat belt even if the vehicle is equipped with air bags. The seat belt must be in good working order and must be worn by you and all passengers while the car is moving.
A school zone is an area near a school. All states have a reduced speed limit fifteen and twenty five MPH in a school zone during certain hours. The beginning and ending of a school zone may be indicated by special signs.
Tailgating is following another car too closely. If someone is following you too closely, be careful. Tap your brake lightly a few times to warn the tailgater that you are slowing down. Brake slowly before stopping. Avoid tailgaters when possible by changing lanes. If you cannot change lanes, slow down enough to encourage the tailgater to go around you. If this does not work, pull off the road when safe and let the tailgater pass.
There are two kinds of intersections open uncontrolled and controlled intersections. Uncontrolled intersections don't have traffic control signs or signals. When a driver approaches this type of intersection, he or she must obey right of way rules.
A state's vehicle code is a collection of laws related to the operation of motor vehicles
EMPTYROW
A car with two front seats, at least two rear seats, four doors and a separate boot.
The amount of space you need to leave between your vehicle and the one in front so that you are not in danger of crashing into it LF the driver suddenly slows down or stops.
A road with one lane in each direction.
When the tyres fail to grip the road, the subsequent loss of control of the vehicle's movement is called a skid. Often cause by harsh braking or steering, or driving too fast.
These are cars that can go off road, are usually four by four, have good towing abilities and can carry more than four passengers.
The time it takes to stop a vehicle made up of thinking distance and braking distance.
Driving too closely behind another vehicle.
The time it takes you to see a hazard and apply the brakes.
A pedestrian crossing that does not have a flashing amber light phase, and that cyclists are allowed to use.
Torque is a measurement used to quantify the force of the rotational force produced by the engine. It is another way to measure the power of a car and is calculated in foot pounds FT LBS.
These help an engine produce more power. A turbocharger uses the pressure from the exhaust to create more pressure in the cylinders, which enables them to receive more fuel air mix.
If when driving through a bend the steering wheel doesn't turn the wheels as much as you want then the car has under steer.
Each cylinder has valves ones that allow the fuel air mix in intake valves and ones that allow the exhaust fumes out exhaust valves. Every cylinder needs at least one intake and one exhaust valve. However some cars have more than one of each as more valves allow more fuel air mix in which helps to increase power and performance. A sixteen valve engine is likely to have four valves on each of its four cylinders.
Wheels need to be balanced correctly as this allows them to rotate smoothly at all speeds.
When the vehicle's wheels spin round out of control with no grip on the road surface.
EMPTYROW
In a self  leveling designed vehicle, the suspension maintains a constant ride height regardless of load like how many people are in the car and how much cargo you've got on board. As many self  leveling suspension designs have a hydraulic component, a filter is needed to ensure the hydraulic fluid stays free of debris.
The serpentine belt drives your car's alternator, water pump, power steering pump, and air conditioning compressor. Because this belt is responsible for many important systems, it's important to inspect it and make sure it's in good condition, free from cracks or uneven wear.
Service reminder lights come on to remind you when your car is due for service or when the car's computer is detecting a problem. Every car is different and each has its own set of prompts to activate the reminder light. When you see this light come on, you should take your car in for an inspection and or or service.
Shift linkage refers to the car cables that connect the gear shift or gear selector to the transmission. Gear shift linkage, shifting linkage and transmission shift linkage transmission linkage are related terms.
Shocks or shock absorbers hold the tires to the road. They reduce the amount of bounce and sway you feel when driving by controlling the spring in the suspension. To do this, they use hydraulic pumps.
Spark plug wires are the conduits by which electricity travels from the distributor or electronic ignition to the spark plugs.
Stability control uses sensors connected to your car's computer to help keep the car in control during a skid or slide. By looking at the steering of the driver and the actual path of the vehicle, the sensors can tell when your car is skidding, and apply the anti lock brakes to one or all of the wheels to keep the car pointed in the direction you want.
Steering moves the wheels of the car in a particular direction thereby allowing you to navigate your vehicle.
The steering gearbox transmits the input of the steering wheel to the front wheels of your car.
The steering intermediate shaft connects the end of the steering column to rack and pinion gearbox.
To optimize comfort and safety while driving, cars all come equipped with a steering wheel adjustment lever that moves the steering wheel up, down, in and out to accommodate people's height in the seat of the car.
Struts are used for shock absorption and load bearing support. They are attached to the chassis and have a spring like design.
A supercharger is an air compressor used to increase the pressure, temperature, and density of air supplied to an engine. Having a greater mass of oxygen accelerates fuel burning, which increases the power produced by the engine. When the supercharger's power source is a turbine, that supercharger is said to be a turbosupercharger turbo for short.
Your car's suspension is designed to maximize friction between the tires and the road so that there is good stability and handling while driving. Suspension allows the frame and body of the car to ride undisturbed as the wheels follow the irregularities bumps, cracks, holes, debris of the road.
What is a tail light? Tail lights are mounted to the rear of the car above the bumper. They are red in color and have accompanying white lights beside them to indicate when the vehicle is in reverse. When you're on the road, tail lights make other car's aware of your presence so that you can travel safely in the dark. Also, the red color of the tail lights shines more brightly whenever you are braking so that other cars know to slow down as well.
The tail pipe is part of your car's exhaust system. Like a chimney on a house, it is designed to release exhaust away from the vehicle and into the air. Exhaust pipes connect to the muffler and are often attached to the rear end of the car with a bracket. Exhaust pipes are susceptible to damage from rear end collisions, failed brackets, broken seals, and corrosion from age.
The thermostat resides between the engine and the radiator, regulating engine temperature. When the engine is cold, the valve of the thermostat is held shut to prevent coolant into the radiator. When the engine heats up, the valve opens so that coolant can circulate through the engine and cool the system. When a car overheats, it could be the result of a faulty thermostat.
The throttle system regulates the amount of air entering the engine, indirectly controlling the fuel air mixture needed for engine power. When you press your foot on the accelerator lightly, the throttle valve opens slightly to let in a small amount of air. Conversely, if you floor it and press down hard on the gas pedal, the throttle opens wide to let in more air, signaling to the car you want to go fast.
Your car's timing belt controls the camshaft, which opens and closes the intake and exhaust valves of the car. While timing belts have a pretty long life span, they will eventually wear out. This will cause the engine to fail.
The timing belt tensioner maintains the proper tension on the timing belt. Timing belt failures are usually a result of a worn timing belt tensioner.
Tire diameter is determined by the width, ratio, radial and rim. The measurements can be found stamped on every tire.
Tire rotation is the act of moving the tires on the car from one position to another in order to extend the life of the tires by helping them wear more evenly.
Tune up refers to service and maintenance on your car. In the past, cars literally needed " tuning " to recalibrate settings. Newer cars of today have different systems, some that self adjust. Despite all that, you car's oil still needs to be changed regularly, fluids need to be topped off, brakes need to be inspected, and tires need to be rotated. There are also many hoses and belts that should be regularly examined for wear to prevent more serious maintenance issues.
Torque is a measure of how much force on an object causes that object to rotate, and is often expressed in pounds of power. In simpler terms, torque determines how fast a car can accelerate. For example, you'll hear a manufacturer boast, this car can go from zero to sixty MPH in four seconds.
When the road is wet, traction control helps limit tire slip when you're accelerating from a stop, so that you're wheels don't peel out or cause you to lose control.
A transaxle combines the transmission, differential, and ancillary systems around the axle into one integrated assembly. You will usually find transaxle configurations in cars where the engine is placed at the same end of the car as the drive wheels. For instance, when you have a front engine, front wheel drive configuration, or a rear engine, rear wheel drive configuration, the design will use a transaxle.
The transmission transfers the output of the engine to the drive wheels of the car. Your car's transmission is usually connected to the crankshaft via a flywheel and or or clutch. The engine's power is transmitted from the driveshaft to the differentials, which causes the wheels on the axle to rotate.
Transmission fluid is highly specialized oil designed for use in automatic transmissions. This fluid assists proper valve operation, reduces brake band friction, and lubricates the torque converter and gears
U bolts are used to hold springs to the front and rear axles of your car. They are also used to attach the body of a truck to its frame. Over time, U bolts can become loose or worn and should periodically be tightened.
Shaped like a U and aptly named, the U joint connects the two shafts of the driveshaft. Over time, lubrication inside the U joint will wear out causing the gears to rub against one another and damage the mechanism.
Underinflation of a tire affects driving performance, wears the tire out more quickly and reduces fuel efficiency. An under inflated tire can't maintain its shape and becomes flatter than intended while in contact with the road. Not only does this put you at risk of getting a flat tire, it significantly shortens the life of your tire. That's why you should frequently check your tire pressure to make sure all four contain the prescribed air pressure usually indicated on a sticker on the interior edge of the car door.
Underbody refers to the belly of your car, the underside that sits closest to the road. Everyday as you drive, rocks, road debris, and salt on snowy roads brushes up against the underbody of your car. When you bring your car in for service, it's raised on a rack so that the mechanic can access certain components and inspect the underside of the car for damage or rust in order to prevent more serious conditions from developing.
Understeer is what happens when your car turns less than the amount you thought it would, causing you to veer off the road.
Unlike traditional lines or hoses that transport material, vacuum lines and hoses work to pull once something has been pushed. For example, when you push down on your brakes, a mechanism is required to pull them back up. Vacuum lines and hoses create reverse pressure to move these kinds of parts.
A vacuum gage is used for diagnostic purposes and is an essential tool in tuning a carburetor in order to find the proper idle mixture of fuel air.
There are a variety of valves on your car usually referred to as a " car valve " or " car valves ". The intake valve allows the fuel air mixture into the combustion chamber of the engine, while the exhaust valve releases the burnt fuel air mixture into the exhaust system. When valves wear out or fail, the cylinder head must be removed and taken apart. This is a fairly involved process that requires resurfacing, pressure testing, and precision work.
A V belt is the rubber belt that drives the alternator, air conditioning compressor, power steering pump and waterpump. It's called a V belt because of its V shaped cross  section. All belts wear out over time and need to be replaced. If you notice cracks or frayed peeling rubber, you should have the belt changed immediately to avoid serious engine damage that could occur.
The advantage of a variable gear ratio steering assembly is that it adjusts to the ideal steering condition for whatever the car's speed happens to be. When traveling at highway speeds, the car's steering becomes less sensitive to small movements of the wheel, whereas when you're driving at slower speeds or parking, the steering becomes highly responsive to small movements of the wheel.
Whenever you brake, the rotor becomes very hot from the friction caused by the brake pad pressing against it. A ventilated rotor helps reduce the heat coming off the rotor for the purpose of making the brakes last longer. The drawback is that ventilated rotors cost more.
Using centrifugal force, the water pump pumps liquid from the engine and cylinder head to the radiator, and then back into the pump. If you are leaking coolant or your car is overheating, you may have a water pump problem.
Wheel alignment is a service that adjusts the angle of the wheels so your car drives straight without pulling to one side or another. Hitting the curb when parking or bouncing in and out of potholes ruins the alignment on your car. This causes uneven tread wear on your tires and shortens the life of the tires.
The wheelbase of a car equals the distance between its front and rear wheels. Its measurement is particularly important to performance cars, as the length of the wheelbase affects weight distribution and aerodynamics.
Wheel bearings, which are located on the wheel hub, are components that help decrease friction when the wheel is turning. Although wheel bearings are sealed, wear can damage the seal and allow debris and moisture inside. When this happens, the bearings will fail and create wheel noise.
What does a wheel cylinder do? In a drum brake system, the wheel cylinder puts pressure on the brake shoes, which when pressed against the drum, slows down and stops the vehicle. The cylinder is connected to the shoes by small rods. In older cars, the cylinders may leak and hinder braking power, but cylinders are relatively inexpensive to replace.
Wheel lug nuts are a tapered nut used to fasten the wheel to the threaded wheel studs connected to your car's axle. Wheel lug bolts fasten the wheel of your car to wheel's hub or brake drum.
Wheel service may include new tires with balancing and alignment, inspection of shocks and struts, a tire rotation of your existing tires to extend their lifespan, or removing the wheels for a brake check.
Windshield wiper fluid is a liquid used to clean the glass of your windshield. It is held in a plastic container and dispensed through jets pointed at the windshield via a switch or lever on your steering wheel. Because clean windshields are important to driving safely, you should always make sure you have a good supply of windshield wiper fluid in its container.
EMPTYROW
System of belts or harnesses designed to restrain and help reduce the risk of injury to occupants in the event of side, rear, rollover or frontal collisions. Refer to the safety section of this book for details concerning ford safety belt systems.
Integrated body structure designed to work as a system to provide protection for occupants.
Back of this individual seat is about as high as the top of the occupant's head. It tapers in from shoulder height to form an integral head restraint.
Measure of the strength of frame side rails determined by the cross  section area and shape of the side rails. When comparing frames of the same material, the one with the largest section modulus will be the strongest. When comparing frames of different materials, the frame with the highest resisting bending moment RBM has the greater strength.
Optional self  adjusting clutch, once installed, does not have to be adjusted again. When the release bearing travel exceeds one two inch, the self  adjusting mechanism returns the clutch and pedal free play to normal operating conditions as the clutch pedal is actuated. A self  adjusting clutch eliminates eight to ten clutch adjustments over the life of a clutch.
Specific type of multi  port injection that delivers fuel in more precisely timed pulses corresponding to the opening of each intake valve. Sefi takes advantage of the atomized fuel spray from the injectors to achieve a more precise combustion for better performance, often with improved fuel economy.
Provides mechanical or hydraulic friction to control deflection of automobile springs
Independent design that allows either wheel to react to road imperfections with minimal effect on the opposite wheel. Several distinct advantages over macpherson struts include camber control, turning geometry and lower component package height. These advantages permit a lower hood line. Major design features include
Engine design with the camshaft located atop the cylinder head, operating both the intake and exhaust valves. Sohc V six and V eight engines, which are designed with cylinders in two banks, have a total of two cams, one for each cylinder head. The one cam in each head operates the intake and exhaust valves, resulting in improved performance and fuel efficiency. All engines using the overhead cam design offer the potential for greater power output and higher engine speeds RPM when compared with overhead valve designs.
Real time traffic information
Large, flat expanse of smooth pavement used for various handling tests, EG, road holding. Generally, road holding is measured as the highest speed a vehicle can maintain without losing adhesion while maintaining the given diameter of a large circle EG, two hundred and fifty feet, three hundred feet, etcetera or the g force generated at that speed.
Deflector plate under a vehicle that helps provide protection from off road debris. Transfer case and fuel tank skid plates are common on ford four by four vehicles.
All ford air brake trucks come equipped with automatic slack adjusters
The organization that sets american automotive standards for automotive measurements, including horsepower, torque and lubricants.
Most split port induction systems have a dual runner engine intake design promoting high volume high velocity airflow to increase engine performance.
Any one of several methods of describing spring ratings currently used in the light truck industry
Bar or tube that provides added support for suspension members to minimize body lean or roll. The stabilizer is transversely mounted and used at the front and or or rear suspension to resist unequal vertical motion across the width of the vehicle.
Rack and pinion
Maximum distance traveled by a piston between bottom dead center BDC and top dead center TDC. If the stroke is increased, the displacement increases and vice versa.
Suspension element that uses a reinforced shock absorber as one of the wheel's locating members, typically by solidly connecting the wheel hub to the bottom of the strut.
Partial frame that connects the vehicle's power train and front suspension or rear components to its underbody.
Attaches to the front or rear structure of some ford vehicles
Supercharger is a large air pump that is normally mounted on the engine intake manifold and belt driven by the crankshaft
The springs, torsion bars, shock absorbers, linkages and locating members acting together to control motions caused by tires passing over uneven road surfaces to reduce the effect on the vehicle body.
Air suspension
Ford and microsoft have teamed up to develop ford sync. This exclusive technology will change the way customers use their digital media and BLUETOOTH one wireless technology enabled mobile phones. Sync allows drivers to stay connected to the information, entertainment and people they care about while on the road. One the bluetooth word mark and logos are trademarks of the bluetooth, sig, Incorporated
Synchromesh clutch is typically a drum or sleeve that slides back and forth on a splined output shaft by means of a shifting fork
Synchronized gears are used in manual transmissions to facilitate the meshing of two gears by causing the speed of both gears to coincide
Gage on the vehicle instrument cluster indicating engine speed measured in crankshaft revolutions per minute RPM.
An integrated steel step and handle that folds down from the top of an open tailgate
A device in the valve system that transmits the action of the cam to the valve or the push rod
Second and or or third row seats are raised slightly higher than the preceding seats in front, similar to seats found in a movie theater or stadium
Power train design that usually uses two intake valves and one exhaust valve per cylinder. The improved flow of air fuel into and out of the engine improves operation virtually to the level of a four valve per cylinder design but with somewhat less complexity and cost.
Housing containing a valve to regulate the airflow through the intake manifold and usually located between the air cleaner and the intake manifold.
Most ford car and light truck tires carry a P metric designation such as P one hundred and eighty five or 70R fourteen or an LT metric designation such as LT two hundred and thirty five 70R sixteen. In the charts below, the alphabetical or metric and load range letters used are obtained from tire and rim association standard tables. P metric steel belted radial ply tires all ford cars and most light trucks have P metric steel belted radial ply tires as standard equipment. They are designed in accordance with nationally accepted dimensional standards.
Tpms uses a tire pressure sensor mounted to a metal band in the wheel's drop well
Turning or twisting force that produces rotation, expressed in pound feet lb FT.
Device in an automatic transmission or transaxle that transforms mechanical power torque from the engine into hydro kinetic fluid power to the transmission.
Measure of an engine's power capability whereby the amount of twisting or rotating effort being exerted on the crankshaft is expressed in pound feet lb FT. Of force. The unit " pound foot " represents the force of one pound acting at a right angle to the rotating crankshaft at a distance of one foot in length. Torque is what gets the vehicle moving and horsepower is what keeps the vehicle moving.
Unwanted imbalance of driving force between the front wheels of a front wheel drive vehicle that causes the car to pull to the left or right under heavy acceleration
Spring consisting of a long solid or tubular rod with one end fixed to the chassis and the other twisted by a lever connected to the suspension.
All  speed traction control uses a combination of brake and or or engine control to maximize available traction on slippery or loose driving surfaces.
Rear wheel drive mechanical system that operates within the differential. Traction lock provides added traction on slippery surfaces, particularly when one rear drive wheel has poor traction. Limited slip is not offered on front wheel drive vehicles.
Mechanism added to a tractor or trailer brake system that safeguards the air supply on the towing unit and automatically applies the brakes on the trailer if it accidentally becomes separated.
There are two types of trailer hitches trailer sway control works in conjunction with the advancetrac or advancetrac with RSC roll stability control TM system to help maintain vehicle or trailer stability while towing a trailer trailer tongue load weight in pounds that a trailer loaded or unloaded exerts directly on the hitch ball attached to the towing vehicle. This load is considered in maintaining the loading limits of the vehicle.
Suspension element that consists of a longitudinal member that pivots from the body at its forward end and has a wheel hub rigidly attached to its trailing end. Similar to a semi  trailing arm, except that its pivot axis is perpendicular to the car's longitudinal center.
Suspension link mounted ahead of a wheel and aligned to resist longitudinal motions in the wheel.
An auxiliary device on a four wheel drive vehicle that allows power to be delivered to front and rear differentials.
Power transmission device, attached to one end of the engine, combining the functions of the transmission and the drive axle final drive and differential into a single assembly
Power train layout design in which the engine crankshaft centerline is aligned parallel to the drive axle S
Intake and or or exhaust systems that harness the pressure pulses and resonances inside various passages and chambers in the intake and exhaust manifolds to increase the flow of the intake charge into and out of the combustion chambers.
A supercharger that is driven by a turbine turned by exhaust gases from the engine.
Combination of the proper front axle equipment results in an important performance specification. The turning diameter will be of significance to the individual owner as well as the fleet operator. The turning diameter is defined as the diameter of the outside track made by the outside front tire during the shortest turn. The diagram shows the diameter made by the outside edge of the bumper during the shortest turn. Note when comparing competitive truck specifications, note whether they spec a diameter or radius dimension.
Diesel fuel with a maximum sulfur content of fifteen parts per million PPM.
Under steer is a condition that occurs when a vehicle turns at a smaller angle than the steering wheel input because of front tire slippage. When this occurs, the steering wheel must be turned at a greater angle to achieve the desired turn. Under steer will be affected by the amount of wheel turn lock to lock as well as the vehicle's weight and the speed of the vehicle when encountering turns
With unitized body construction, the front, rear and side rails are welded together with the floor pan, cross members and torque boxes to form a single " unit, " whereas body on frame construction has two pieces, the body and the frame
Components such as tires, wheels and brakes are not supported by the suspension and are considered unsprung weight
Variable camshaft timing allows the valves to be operated at different points in the combustion cycle, to provide performance that is precisely tailored to the engine's specific speed and load at that instant
A coil spring operating with a variable number of active coils
Abbreviation for vehicle identification number
Fluid coupling in which the input and output shafts mate with thin, alternately spaced discs in a cylindrical chamber filled with a viscous fluid that clings to the discs, thereby causing them to resist the speed differences between the two shafts
Weight of the vehicle including standard equipment, oil, lubricants and a full tank of fuel. Does not include optional contents or other optional equipment, the weight of driver, passengers or cargo option weight. Curb weight.
Portion of a vehicle's total weight that will be supported by each axle and each tire. Proper distribution of vehicle weight is critical to braking, handling and to the service life of components such as axles, springs, bearings and tires.
Weight ratings are not actual weights, they are ratings that must be adhered to when the vehicle is in use. Payload rating
Commonly used to tow small and medium size trailers
Used in conjunction with a hitch platform receiver, distributes tongue weight to all towing vehicle and trailer wheels
Distance between the center points of the front and rear wheels.
EMPTYROW
GM's brand of next generation ev batteries, drive units and platform.
Are expected to offer a GM estimated driving range of three hundred plus two miles on a full charge. These cells can be arranged in different combinations of flexible modules and battery packs to provide the energy needed for every segment on the road today and some that don't even exist at present.
Can be formed from six, eight, ten or twelve modules, or up to twenty four modules from two double stacked ultium battery packs. GM's ability to stack long pouch cells vertically or horizontally in modules is unique in the industry. It allows for a lower cabin floor where it matters most, yielding more interior room than comparable evs that use cylindrical cells in battery packs with a uniform height.
A measure of the electromotive force that drives electrons through a circuit.
The basic measurement of electrical power.
A unit of specific energy. Equates to battery energy divided by battery mass. The higher the better, as it equals more energy in less mass.
A unit of energy density. Equates to battery energy divided by battery volume. The higher the better, as it equals more energy in less volume.
A nearly wireless system that balances chemistry within the individual battery cell groups for optimal performance. It can also conduct real time battery pack health checks and refocus the network of modules and sensors as needed this helps safeguard battery health over the vehicle's lifespan.
EMPTYROW
The society of automotive engineers or sae is an international group of engineers and technical experts from the automotive and aerospace industries that collaborate to develop standards with their fields, provide training and support many charitable programs for aspiring engineers.
A company that creates engineering resources programs that for businesses. There are many companies that do this but sap is by far the largest. When someone refers to sap they are usually referring to the software itself that is used in most manufacturing facilities to organize and manage resources. See erp for more details.
An opening or a surface that is intended to direct airflow in a specific direction to assist or improve vehicle propulsion.
Series production or batch production is the manufacture of a product in a series or group of operations that ensures each product goes through each operation.
The time required to set up tooling and fixturing, bring up customized programming and load materials to changeover a manufacturing process.
A subjective assessment for how the transmission of an automobile moves from gear to gear. Shift quality is used to assess drivability and overall experience with the automobile.
The line on an automobile that is formed where the top and side surfaces extending from the hood to the quarter panel shoulder.
The line that is formed between a car door and the body of the vehicle when the door is closed.
A line that extends from the C pillar to the rear wheel well.
Six sigma is a quality process that was developed by motorola in the eighties to improve manufacturing quality and provide a method for quality monitoring and control. The six sigma goal for manufacturing is to drive quality to less than four defects per million parts built.
Statistical process control is the method of using statistical control charts and calculations to analyze a process to keep it within statistical control and maintain process capability.
An item on a drawing or in an automotive design that is determined to be critical to the form, fit or function of the end product or function critical.
Stamping is a material process that uses a formed die or stamp and then sandwiches a material within the die changing its form.
A measure of the dispersion of a group of values and is calculated by determining the square root of the mean of the differences of the squares of the values in the group.
Standardized work instructions are used in automotive engineering manufacturing processes to ensure that all processes are consistent, timely and repeatable no matter which operator is performing the process.
Start of production describes the point where the product has completed the development and validation processes and is ready to start mass production. Once a product reaches start of production it will typically begin to ramp up where production starts at slow volumes
A statistical distribution graph is a graphical representation of observed or occurring values that show their frequency of occurrence.
A crease in the sheet metal body that is styling feature for sports or high performance vehicles.
A supplier is anyone who sells materials or components to a company, suppliers are classified as tier I, tier II, tier three depending on whether they sell raw materials or assembled components who they supply.
Supplier quality engineers manage the internal quality and incoming quality from suppliers. They manage day to day monitoring of quality levels, manage quality issues and coordinate ppaps, audits and root cause analysis while working with design and production to develop high quality products and production processes.
Supply chain management coordinates the movement of raw materials, components and in process materials from the beginning of the assembly process until they are shipped to the end customer.
Surface hardness is a measurement of how difficult it is to penetrate the surface of an object and the surface hardness depth is how far this extends into the material.
The springs, shocks and related parts between the wheels and the frame of the vehicle that support the frame and help to reduce shock and vibration from the road.
Takt time comes from the german word taktzeit which translates as meter and is the process for setting the pace for a manufacturing assembly line to match the production demand rate.
A stress or direction that is applied at ninety degrees to the radius of the object.
A machining process that creates threads inside a hole in metal, plastic or wood to all a screw to be twisted in.
The big three refers to the top three automotive manufacturers in the united states and canada which are general motors, ford and chrysler.
A machining process that creates a multispindle effect inside a hole in metal, plastic or wood to all a screw to be twisted in.
Tier I suppliers provide final equipment directly to the automotive manufacturers or oems. Tier I suppliers will supply major subassemblies such as the assembled dashboard or a full drivetrain so that it can be installed into the vehicle.
A tier II supplier will provide components and materials to a tier I supplier.
Tier three suppliers typically supply raw materials that are used to fabricate and produce components.
The allowable variation in a machined or manufactured part, for example a cut wire will be 120MM plus ten hmmm means the wire can measure one hundred and ten one hundred and thirty hmmm in length and still be accepted.
Tooling is custom designed implements that perform a specific job during the assembly process.
Torque describes the twisting force that passes through the drive train of an automobile initiating motion. The engine powers the drive train which is measured in ft lbs of force, higher torque is required to overcome resistance to motion such as when a vehicle first begins moving.
The TQM process is a holistic quality approach that uses an integrated quality process of continuous improvement for an automotive organization. The goal of TQM is to incorporate progressive changes to gradually transform an organization with changes in the attitudes, practices, structures and systems.
TS sixteen thousand nine hundred and forty nine two thousand nine is the document that defines the quality management systems and requirements for all products within the automotive engineering and manufacturing world. In order to develop and produce a product in the automotive world companies must demonstrate to auditors that they meet the requirements for TS sixteen thousand nine hundred and forty nine to receive certification.
A type of deburring process that places the part inside a container of finishing pieces and then the container is rotated.
The shape of the rocker panel of the vehicle as it curves inward at the lower edge.
Turning is when a material is held between two plates and then the cutting tool is rotated to form the desired shape. There are variations on turning including step turning, chamfering, facing, roughing or finishing.
Flexible, double pivoted joint that allows power to be delivered through two shafts at an angle to each other and delivers power to the wheels.
Understeering occurs when the vehicle turns less sharply than would be indicated by the motion of the steering wheel.
The upper statistical limit for a variable is the highest value within the acceptable range for the variable. Once the variable exceeds the upper statistical limit it is said to be out of control.
Valves are located within the crankcase ventilation system of the engine and routes blow by from the crankcase to the intake manifold and then back to the engine as part of the fuel air mixture and helps to cut emissions and improve fuel economy.
The numerical value that shows the largest difference in the range of values within a group.
A vehicle identification number is a coded series of numbers and letters that is used to identify motor vehicles, trailers, motorcycles and mopeds and is defined and controlled by the international organization for standardization iso specification number three thousand eight hundred and thirty three.
Waste in a manufacturing process is material or processes that do not result in production of something of value that can be sold to a customer.
The opening in the side of the vehicle that allows access to the wheel.
The wheelbase of a vehicle is the distance between the center of the front and the rear wheels.
Wire electric discharge machining is a process that uses electrical sparks to shape a piece of metal by electric discharge across two electrodes.
The numerical average of a data set is call X bar and is calculated by adding all values and then dividing by the total number of values.
