Acquittal DELIMITER A release, absolution, or discharge of an obligation or liability. In criminal law the finding of not guilty.
Adjudication DELIMITER Giving or pronouncing a judgment or decree. Also the judgment given.
Administrative agencies DELIMITER Agencies created by the legislative branch of government to administer laws pertaining to specific areas such as taxes, transportation, and labor.
Admiralty law DELIMITER That body of law relating to ships, shipping, marine commerce and navigation, transportation of persons or property by sea, etcetera
Advance directive DELIMITER see living will.
Affidavit DELIMITER A voluntary, written, or printed declaration of facts, confirmed by oath of the party making it before a person with authority to administer the oath.
Alimony DELIMITER Also called maintenance or spousal support. In a divorce or separation, the money paid by one spouse to the other in order to fulfill the financial obligation that comes with marriage.
Alternative dispute resolution DELIMITER Settling a dispute without a full, formal trial. Methods include mediation, conciliation, arbitration, and settlement, among others.
Amicus curiae DELIMITER Latin for friend of the court. Refers to a party that is allowed to provide information usually in the form of a legal brief to a court even though the party is not directly involved in the case at hand.
Annulment DELIMITER A legal decree that states that a marriage was never valid. Has the legal effect of wiping out a marriage as though it never existed.
Answer DELIMITER In a civil case, the defendant's written response to the plaintiff's complaint. It must be filed within a specified period of time, and it either admits to or more typically denies the factual or legal basis for liability.
Appeal DELIMITER A request to a supervisory court, usually composed of a panel of judges, to overturn the legal ruling of a lower court.
Appearance DELIMITER The act of coming into court as a party to a suit either in person or through an attorney.
Appellate court DELIMITER A court having jurisdiction to hear appeals and review a trial court's procedure.
Arbitration DELIMITER When disputing parties participate in a process where they agree in advance to accept the decision of a mutually selected arbitrator panel of arbitrators which will hear both sides and make a decision. Bar sponsored arbitration programs may also be a free or affordable way to work through a dispute with a lawyer.
Arbitrator DELIMITER A private, disinterested person chosen by the parties in arbitration to hear evidence concerning the dispute and to make an award based on the evidence.
Arraignment DELIMITER The initial appearance before a judge in a criminal case. At an arraignment, the charges against the defendant are read, a lawyer is appointed if the defendant cannot afford one, and the defendant's plea is entered. A plea can be guilty, not guilty, or where permitted nolo contendere. See preliminary hearing.
Articles of incorporation DELIMITER A document that must be filed with a state in order to incorporate. Among the things it typically must include are the name and address of the corporation, its general purpose and the number and type of shares of stock to be issued.
Bankruptcy DELIMITER A federal legal proceeding in which a debtor may be released from or discharged from debts, sometimes by paying a portion of each debt.
Bar DELIMITER A term meaning lawyers or lawyer associations.
Brief DELIMITER A written argument by counsel arguing a case, which contains a summary of the facts of the case, pertinent laws, and an argument of how the law applies to the fact situation.
Burden of proof DELIMITER In a court case, the responsibility of proving a point the burden of proof which side must establish a point or points.
Canons of ethics DELIMITER Standards of ethical conduct for attorneys.
Case law DELIMITER Also known as common law. Law established by previous decisions of appellate courts.
Cause of action DELIMITER The fact or facts which give a person a right to relief in court.
Certiorari DELIMITER When a higher court agrees to review the decision of a lower court. If an appellate court grants a writ of certiorari, it agrees to take the appeal.
Civil law or civil case DELIMITER A case that does not include a crime. Usually a case between private parties or businesses.
Class action DELIMITER A lawsuit brought by one or more persons on behalf of a larger group.
Client Security or Protection Fund DELIMITER A special fund to help compensate clients who are defrauded by dishonest lawyers, for example when a lawyer fails to turn over client's money won in a lawsuit, or other money held in trust for the client. This fund cannot help clients in fee disputes, or pay for losses due to lawyer malpractice.
Closing DELIMITER In a real estate transaction, this is the final exchange in which the deed is delivered to the buyer, the title is transferred, and the agreed on costs are paid.
Code of Professional Responsibility DELIMITER The rules of conduct or ethics that govern the legal profession.
Common law DELIMITER Also known as case law. Law established by previous decisions of appellate courts.
Compensatory damages DELIMITER Money awarded to reimburse actual costs, such as medical bills and lost wages. Also awarded for things that are harder to measure, such as pain and suffering.
Complainant DELIMITER The party who complains or sues one who applies to the court for legal redress. May also be called the plaintiff or petitioner.
Complaint DELIMITER one The legal document that usually begins a civil lawsuit. It states the facts and identifies the action the court is asked to take. Two formal written charge that a person has committed a criminal offense.
Conciliation DELIMITER A form of alternative dispute resolution in which the parties bring their dispute to a neutral third party, who helps lower tensions, improve communications, and explore possible solutions. Conciliation is similar to mediation, but may be less formal.
Contempt of court DELIMITER Willful disobedience of a judge's command or of an official court order. An action that interferes with a judge's ability to administer justice or that insults the dignity of the court. Disrespectful comments to the judge or a failure to heed a judge's orders could be considered contempt of court. A person found in contempt of court can face financial sanctions and, in some cases, jail time.
Contingency fee DELIMITER Also called a contingent fee. A fee arrangement in which the lawyer is paid out of any damages that are awarded. Typically, the lawyer gets between one fourth and one third. If no damages are awarded, there is no fee but the client still may have to pay filing fees, costs for the lawyer's investigation of the case, etcetera.
Continuance DELIMITER Postponement of a legal proceeding to a later date.
Contract DELIMITER A legally enforceable agreement between two or more competent parties made either orally or in writing in which an offer is made and accepted, and each party benefits. The agreement can be formal, informal, written, oral or just plain understood. Some contracts are required to be in writing in order to be enforced by a court.
Copyright DELIMITER A person's right to prevent others from copying works that he or she has written, authored or otherwise created.
Corporation DELIMITER An independent entity created to conduct a business or other activity.
Counsel DELIMITER A legal adviser a term used to refer to lawyers in a case.
Counterclaim DELIMITER A claim made by the defendant in a civil lawsuit against the plaintiff. In essence, a counter lawsuit within a lawsuit.
Court costs DELIMITER The expenses of prosecuting or defending a lawsuit, other than the attorney fees. An amount of money may be awarded to the successful party and may be recoverable from the losing party as reimbursement for court costs.
Court reporter DELIMITER A person who transcribes by shorthand or stenographically takes down testimony during court proceedings, a deposition, or other trial related proceeding.
Crime DELIMITER An act in violation of the penal laws of a state or the United States.
Criminal justice system DELIMITER The network of courts and tribunals which deal with criminal law and its enforcement.
Damages DELIMITER Money awarded by a court to a person injured by another person.
Debtor DELIMITER A person or entity who owes a debt to another.
Deed DELIMITER A written legal document that describes a piece of property and outlines its boundaries.
Default DELIMITER Failure of the defendant to appear and answer the summons and complaint.
Default judgment DELIMITER A judgment entered against a party who fails to appear in court or respond to the charges.
Defendant DELIMITER The person defending or denying a suit.
Deposition DELIMITER Testimony of a witness or a party taken under oath outside the courtroom, the transcript of which becomes a part of the court's file.
Disbarment DELIMITER Form of discipline of a lawyer resulting in the loss often permanently of that lawyer's right to practice law.
Discipline Agency DELIMITER A state agency responsible for investigating complaints about lawyers. If the lawyer is found to have violated an ethics or court rule, he or she will be reprimanded, fined, and perhaps suspended or disbarred license to practice law revoked. Please note that lawyer discipline agencies cannot help clients recover fees paid to the lawyer, or make the lawyer pay for a loss the client has suffered because the lawyer made mistakes in handling a case.
Discovery DELIMITER A process prior to a trial in which each side obtains facts and information about the case from the other side and from other sources.
Dismissal DELIMITER The termination of a lawsuit by a court's finding that it should not be permitted to proceed.
Dismissal with prejudice DELIMITER When a case is dismissed for good reason and the plaintiff is barred from bringing an action on the same claim.
Dismissal without prejudice DELIMITER When a case is dismissed but the plaintiff is allowed to bring a new suit on the same claim.
Domicile DELIMITER Where a person has his permanent home to which he intends to return.
Double jeopardy DELIMITER Putting a person on trial more than once for the exact same crime. It is forbidden by the Fifth Amendment to the United States Constitution.
Due process DELIMITER The concept that laws and legal proceedings must be fair. The Constitution guarantees that the government cannot take away a person's basic rights to life, liberty or property, without due process of law. Courts have issued numerous rulings about what this means in particular cases.
Back to Top DELIMITER nan
Equal Protection Clause DELIMITER The portion of the Fourteenth Amendment to the US Constitution that prohibits discrimination by state government institutions. The clause grants all people equal protection of the laws, which means that the states must apply the law equally and cannot give preference to one person or class of persons over another.
Evidence DELIMITER Information presented in testimony or in documents that is used by the fact finder judge or jury to decide the case for one side or the other.
Expert witness DELIMITER A witness with a specialized knowledge of a subject who is allowed to discuss an event in court even though he or she was not present. For example, an arson expert could testify about the probable cause of a suspicious fire.
Expungement DELIMITER The process by which the record of criminal conviction is destroyed or sealed.
Extradition DELIMITER The surrender of an accused criminal by one state to the jurisdiction of another.
Felony DELIMITER A serious criminal offense. Usually any offense punishable by death or imprisonment for a term exceeding one year.
Fiduciary DELIMITER A person or institution who manages money or property for another. For example, an executor of an estate, a trustee, etcetera
Fiduciary Duty DELIMITER An obligation to act in the best interest of another party. For instance, a corporation's board member has a fiduciary duty to the shareholders, a trustee has a fiduciary duty to the trust's beneficiaries.
Filing Fee DELIMITER The fee required for filing various documents.
Grand Jury DELIMITER A group of citizens convened in a criminal case to consider the prosecutor's evidence and determine whether probable cause exists to prosecute a suspect for a felony.
Guardian DELIMITER A person appointed by will or by law to assume responsibility for incompetent adults or minor children. If a parent dies, this will usually be the other parent. If both die, it probably will be a close relative.
Guardian ad litem DELIMITER Latin for guardian at law. The person appointed by the court to look out for the best interests of a child or other person not able to look out for themselves during the course of legal proceedings.
Hearing DELIMITER A formal proceeding generally less formal than a trial with definite issues of law or of fact to be heard. Hearings are used by courts and also by legislative and administrative agencies.
Indigent DELIMITER Needy or impoverished. A defendant in a criminal case who can demonstrate his or her indigence to the court may be assigned a court appointed attorney at public expense.
Initial appearance DELIMITER When a defendant in a criminal case comes before a judge shortly after an arrest to determine whether or not there is probable cause for the arrest.
Injunction DELIMITER A court order which forbids or requires a party to the case to do some act.
Interrogatories DELIMITER A set or series of written questions sent to a party, witness, or other person having information or interest in a case used in the discovery phase of a case.
Joint and several liability DELIMITER A legal concept that says that each of the parties who are responsible for an injury are liable for the total amount of damages awarded in a lawsuit if the other parties responsible cannot pay.
Judgment DELIMITER Decision of a court.
Jurisdiction DELIMITER The power or authority of a court to hear and try a case the geographic area in which a court has power or the types of cases it has power to hear.
Jury DELIMITER A certain number of men and women selected according to law and sworn to determine the facts in a case after hearing the evidence.
Legal aid DELIMITER Legal services that may be available to persons organizations unable to afford such services in civil matters. There is no right to legal aid in most types of civil matters.
Living will DELIMITER Also known as a medical directive or advance directive. A written document that states a person's wishes regarding life support or other medical treatment in certain circumstances, usually when death is imminent.
Magistrate DELIMITER See US Magistrate Judge. Judicial officer exercising some of the functions of a judge. It also refers in a general way to a judge.
Maintenance DELIMITER In a divorce or separation, the money paid by one spouse to the other in order to fulfill the financial obligation that comes with marriage. Also called alimony.
Mediation DELIMITER A private, informal way to resolve a dispute. A mediator is a neutral third person who tries to aid disputing parties in reaching a mutually agreeable solution to their differences. Bar sponsored client lawyer mediation programs can be a good first step if efforts to work the problem out with the lawyer have not succeeded.
Misdemeanor DELIMITER A criminal offense lesser than a felony and generally punishable by fine or by imprisonment other than in a penitentiary or for less than one year.
Mistrial DELIMITER A fundamental error in a trial. When a mistrial is declared, the trial must start again with the selection of a new jury.
Moot DELIMITER A moot case or a moot point is one not subject to a judicial determination because it involves an abstract question or a pretended controversy that has not yet actually arisen or has already passed. Mootness usually refers to a court's refusal to consider a case because the issue involved has been resolved prior to the court's decision, leaving nothing that would be affected by the court's decision.
Motion DELIMITER A request made to a court or judge which seeks a ruling order in favor of the applicant.
Motion to dismiss DELIMITER In a civil case, a request to a judge by the defendant, asserting that even if all the allegations are true, the plaintiff is not entitled to any legal relief and thus the case should be dismissed.
Negligence DELIMITER Failure to use care which a reasonable and prudent person would use under similar circumstances.
No fault divorce DELIMITER A divorce in which it doesn't matter who did what to whom that caused the marriage to break down all that matters is that there is no reasonable prospect of reconciliation.
Notary Public DELIMITER A person who has been authorized by a state to administer oaths or certify documents.
Oath DELIMITER A solemn pledge made under a sense of responsibility.
Opinion DELIMITER A judge's written explanation of a decision of the court or of a majority of judges. A dissenting opinion disagrees with the majority opinion because of the reasoning and or the principles of law on which the decision is based. A concurring opinion agrees with the decision of the court but offers further comment. A per curiam opinion is an unsigned opinion of the court.
Paralegal DELIMITER A person, usually with special training but who has not earned a law degree, who works under the supervision of a lawyer. Also called a legal assistant.
Petitioner DELIMITER In some states or types of cases, the person filing a lawsuit or action in a court. Also, the person who appeals the judgment of a lower court.
Plaintiff DELIMITER A person who brings a lawsuit or action the party who complains or sues in a civil action.
Plea DELIMITER The defendant's statement that he or she is guilty or not guilty. The defendant's answer to the charges made in the indictment or information. A plea can be guilty, not guilty, or where permitted nolo contendere.
Pleadings DELIMITER The written statements of fact and law filed by the parties to a lawsuit.
Preliminary hearing DELIMITER Also, called a preliminary examination. Legal proceeding used in some states in which a prosecutor presents evidence to a judge in an attempt to show that there is probable cause that a person committed a crime. If the judge is convinced probable cause exists to charge the person, then the prosecution proceeds to the next phase. If not, the charges are dropped.
Pro Bono DELIMITER Work done by a lawyer without compensation, for the public good a lawyer's pro bono work.
Pro Se DELIMITER pronounced pro say Latin phrase that means for himself. A person who represents himself in court alone without the help of a lawyer is said to appear pro se.
Probate DELIMITER Court proceeding by which a will is proved valid or invalid. Term used to mean all proceedings pertaining to the administration of estates such as the process by which assets are gathered applied to pay debts, taxes, and expenses of administration and distributed to those designated as beneficiaries in the will.
Probate court DELIMITER The court with authority to supervise estate administration.
Prosecutor DELIMITER A trial lawyer representing the government in a criminal case and the interests of the state in civil matters. In criminal cases, the prosecutor has the responsibility of deciding who and when to prosecute.
Public defender DELIMITER Government lawyer who provides free legal defense services to a poor person accused of a crime.
Reasonable doubt DELIMITER Generally in a criminal case, an accused person is entitled to acquittal if, in the minds of the jury, his or her guilt has not been proved beyond a reasonable doubt.
Reply DELIMITER The response by a party to charges raised in a pleading by the other party.
Respondent DELIMITER The person against whom an appeal is taken.
Retainer DELIMITER A term sometimes used to describe the fee which the client pays when he or she retains the attorney to act for them.
Rules of evidence DELIMITER Standards governing whether evidence in a civil or criminal case is admissible.
Self help DELIMITER A term sometimes used to describe when a person handles a legal matter on their own, without using a lawyer.
Standard of proof DELIMITER In a court case, indicates the degree to which the point must be proven. In a civil case, the plaintiff must usually establish his or her case by a " preponderance of evidence " or " clear and convincing evidence. "
Standing DELIMITER The legal right to bring a lawsuit. Only a person with something at stake has standing to bring a lawsuit.
Statute of limitations DELIMITER A statute which limits the right of a plaintiff to file an action unless it is done within a specified time period after the occurrence which gives rise to the right to sue.
Stipulation DELIMITER An agreement between the parties involved in a suit, agreeing that a certain fact or law will be assumed to be true or relevant.
Subpoena DELIMITER An order compelling a person to appear to testify or produce documents.
Summary judgment DELIMITER When a court gives its judgment that there is no dispute as to the facts of the case and one party is entitled to a judgment as a matter of law.
Summons DELIMITER A legal document used to begin a civil case or to tell a person they must appear in court or respond to a lawsuit.
Temporary restraining order DELIMITER An emergency but temporary order by a court used when immediate or irreparable damages or loss might result.
Testimony DELIMITER The evidence given by a witness under oath. It does not include evidence from documents and other physical evidence.
Tort DELIMITER When a person or entity caused a civil wrong or injury.
Trust DELIMITER A legal device used to manage real or personal property, established by one person for the benefit of another.
Trustee DELIMITER The person or institution that manages the property put in trust.
Venue DELIMITER Authority of a court to hear a matter based on geographical location.
Verdict DELIMITER A conclusion, as to fact or law, that forms the basis for the court's judgment.
Will DELIMITER A legal declaration that disposes of a person's property when that person dies.
Witness DELIMITER A person who testifies in court and swears to give truthful evidence about what he has seen, heard, or otherwise observed.
Words and Phrases Legally Defined DELIMITER A set of books in dictionary form which lists judicial determinations of a word or phrase.
Worker's compensation DELIMITER one A state agency which handles claims of workers injured on their jobs. Two a benefit paid to an employee who suffers a work related injury or illness.
Writ DELIMITER A judicial order directing a person to do something.
Writ of certiorari DELIMITER An order issued by the Supreme Court directing the lower court to transmit records for a case for which it will hear on appeal. See certiorari in Foreign Words Glossary.
Writ of execution DELIMITER An order of the court evidencing debt of one party to another and commanding the court officer to take property in satisfaction of the debt.
Writ of garnishment DELIMITER An order of the court whereby property, money, or credits in the possession of another person may be seized and applied to pay a debtor's debt. It is used as an incident to or auxiliary of a judgment rendered in a principal action.
Wrongful discharge DELIMITER When an employee is fired for reasons that are not legitimate, typically either because they are unlawful or because they violate the terms of an employment contract.
