Go to www.google.com 

and then to BMW

E85 refers to fuel that contains up to 85% ethanol.
Airbag* on/off switches are available for most of our vehicles.
 The Hyundai Roadside Assistance Program provides you with the following services: • Towing to transport your vehicle to the nearest Hyundai Dealership or Authorized Service Facility in the event your vehicle is inoperable. • Roadside services, such as dead battery/jump start, flat tire change, lock-out service (keys locked in car), or gas delivery (up to three gallons, where permissible, at no charge if you run out of gas).
I have a question regarding the Takata bankruptcy and class action settlement. In October 2017, TK Holdings, Inc. ("TKH"), the largest U.S. subsidiary of Takata Corporation, and certain of TKH's affiliates sent required legal notices to the past and current owners of all vehicles containing certain types of Takata airbag inflators to notify them of their rights in bankruptcy proceedings.
A Vehicle Identification Number, commonly referred to as the VIN, is a sequence of 17 letters and numbers that is uniquely assigned for each vehicle.
By working together in the OAA (Open Automotive Alliance), ...
The BATTERY CHARGE LOW or BATT LOW warning message on my dash is on. What does that mean and what should I do?
The 10th digit indicates the model year; letters (except "O" and "Z") were used for vehicles up to the 2000 model year while numbers are used for 2001-2009 vehicles and returning to letters for 2010.
If you would like to contact us regarding Blue Link, call us at 855-2-BLUE-LINK (855-225-8354) or email us at customercare@HyundaiBlueLink.com.
To view these documents, please visit http://owners.honda.com and select your year and model
If you sell your vehicle while still under the 10-Year/100,000-Mile Powertrain Limited Warranty, the warranty will be reduced to 5-year/60,000-mile coverage. Other Hyundai warranty terms and coverage periods, including Roadside Assistance, remain unchanged for subsequent owner(s).
E85 refers to fuel that contains up to 85% ethanol.
Below is a basic outline of how to make calls: 1. Press the talk button located on the steering wheel. 2. Listen for a noise and radio display that indicates the Bluetooth is listening.
This system monitors the battery's state of charge (SOC) and alerts the driver when it has dropped below a predetermined level via a series of messages on the multi-information display (MID).

Generated by salb
FIAT is an acronym, which is pronounced as a word, unlike BMW, which is an initialism and pronounced per letter.
This is how fiat and bmw are normalized, when they are not capped. 
It costs about $80,000; in European formatting however, that is $80.000,00